Richard Saar	About 97,500 words
saarrichard@hotmail.com
Address
Phone Number
Citizen’s Fall
Book 1 of the Citizenship Series
by Richard Saar

CHAPTER 1

PROLOGUE

“So, this is it... this is how it all ends,” he thought as he slammed into the dirt, rocks and branches gouging him from every angle. 
His head spun, a nauseating whirl from the fall, he was sprawled legs and arms out wide, eyes squeezed shut against the chaos. He could hear the van’s engine fading into the distance, tires crunching over the gravel road. With trembling hands, he scrambled to rip the hood from his head, gulping air as he blinked into the dim light. 
He seized a final glimpse of the van speeding away, dust settling over the road’s edge where it cut through the jagged spine of the Northwestern Range—or what remained after the Reclamation.
How did it end up like this? All he’d tried to do was the right thing—play by the rules and get ahead just like anyone else—but they’d hounded him until he had nothing left and had no option but to push back.
He had no idea where he was; they’d been driving for hours, or so it felt. Time was a funny thing when you had a hood over your head and your arms and legs are shackled to a van floor, with only the rumble of the tires on the road for company.
He’d been expecting something like this to happen; he just wasn’t sure what it would be. Jail wasn’t going to be an option—he was too well-known now. Infamous would be more accurate, and it would certainly get out that he was in custody. Which would more than likely provide a location for the protest movement to picket against, just like they did at the courthouse during his so-called trial. He hadn’t been at the courthouse personally, but the crowd had caused more than enough disruption and embarrassment for the government to avoid giving his supporters a new focus.
No, they simply couldn’t risk him becoming more famous. They had to take the steam out of the protest movement that had been threatening to build into something that couldn’t be stopped easily.
Was it going to be a bullet in a back room? Was it going to be torture and public humiliation, or something even worse? Not knowing his fate past the next few hours of survival had made the last few months a living hell. If he stopped running and got caught, the consequences were as dire as they could be.
Today, that day had come.
Somehow they’d found him. He wasn’t sure how—was it one of the cameras on every street corner? Was it a dutiful citizen noticing him and reporting it, earning themselves some social cohesion points? It didn’t matter anymore; they’d caught up with him. When it came to it, there was no heroic standoff or fight against the odds. No, it was quiet, efficient, and a total surprise.
He’d been skulking through the rusted sprawl of the Mid-Continental Belt, where factories choked the plains from old Kansas to the Texan fringe, hiding out among the workers for a month.
He’d managed to steal a high-vis uniform from one of the big companies in the area and could walk around without anyone really noticing—he was just another worker. He’d worn a hard hat and safety glasses to make himself less recognisable; not that many people remebered what he looked like anyway.
He’d even been able to blend into the throng of uniformed workers going into the factories with the morning shift. From there, it was easy to get more uniform pieces, have a shower, and even visit the company canteen twice a day. It was, he thought, the perfect deception—become just another body in a nameless crowd.
He was feeling almost comfortable for the first time in months when the van screeched to a halt next to him as he walked to his bolt hole in an abandoned office building for the night. The door to the van slid open quickly and violently. Two sets of hands snatched him off his feet and bundled him backward inside, while another set thrust a hood over his head. There was no struggle—the arms attached to those hands were far too strong and practiced. It took no more than five seconds, and he was off the street as the van sped away.
Almost immediately, a female voice began addressing him coldly. He tried to calm himself down so he could hear the words she was saying instead of the blood pounding in his ears.
“Mr. Dalton, you have been convicted, in absentia, of crimes against the state that include, but are not limited to, seditious libel and seditious conspiracy. For these and other crimes, you have had your citizenship revoked. You no longer have any rights. This decision cannot be appealed and is permanent—not even an act of government can reverse it.”
The voice softened slightly. “Mr. Dalton, this means you can no longer exist in our society. You are not welcome anywhere under the jurisdiction of the Bi-Continental Government of the Americas. To be found inside the limits of our borders will result in immediate and summary execution.”
With finality, the voice said, “Mr. Dalton, by the power invested in me as an authorised person, I hereby consider this judgment to have been delivered. Driver, take him away.”
With that the van jerked to a halt and a door slid open. Someone got out—he guessed it was the owner of the female voice.
#
The hours since being snatched off the street had raced by in a blur of monotony punctuated by pain, maybe six or seven by his best guess.
He had tried counting the time in seconds and minutes, but when the van left the road and started on what felt like a goat track, he lost focus. It was hard to keep a regular cadence when every bump smashed like a punch to the kidneys as his spine compressed against the steel bench he was restrained to. His shoulders were stretched tight, his hands forced painfully behind him in cuffs.
The guards—or whatever they were—hadn’t uttered a word since grabbing him off the street and bundling him into the van.
Every time he asked even a simple question, like who they were or where they were taking him, the answer had been a sharp poke in the ribs with one of their batons—or, like the last time, a swift crack across the head that left him seeing stars.
Admittedly, asking them if they were okay and whether they needed to stop for a break might have been provocative.
Eventually, they stopped, but he didn’t have more than a few seconds to enjoy the blissful lack of movement. No sooner had they halted than he was unlocked from the floor and dragged out of the van.
The shackles came off his ankles and legs; the hood stayed on.
The two guards took an arm each, half-lifting, half-marching him to what felt like the side of a road—then unceremoniously shoved him.
That was when he realized he wasn’t on flat ground. Where he expected to hit solid earth, there wasn’t any. 
He struck a steep slope and cartwheeled—one, two, three, four times—arms and legs flailing. Crashing into the foliage, gravity won.
The spinning in his head slowly wound down and In the quiet aftermath of his violent exit from the van, he gauged his situation
He’d been shoved off the side of the road down a steep embankment and had ended up at the edge of a forest, buried in some bushes.
He gauged his condition: What hurt? Did he have any serious injuries?
No, he didn’t think so. Apart from the pain of bouncing down the slope and being winded somewhere after the second or third barrel roll, he was relatively unscathed.
However, he had nothing on him. He was dressed in the same stolen work clothes he’d been wearing when they dragged him off the street—at least it was relatively new gear, stolen from the laundry a few days ago—but they had taken his boots. 
That was about the extent of his inventory: no phone to call family (not that anyone would answer anyway), no wallet, money, or ID, no food, water, not even a jacket.
He gingerly stood up, making sure his initial assessment of his lack of injuries was accurate. Yes, all good so far—though he was pretty sure he’d hurt more later.
The forest behind him was black and impenetrable, swallowing the fading light of the day. Snow gleamed on the peaks hemming the valley—somewhere deep in the Cascades or Rockies, far from the Belt’s smog. They’d hauled him north, alright, into the wild, lawless territory that no country claimed or controlled.
The van was long gone, the dust already settling from its speedy exit. The noise of it driving away was being replaced by an oppressive silence. Having lived in the city all his life, he didn’t like the silence too much, and the silence here was far too loud.
It didn’t seem like it had snowed down here recently. Thankfully, he was a few hundred meters below the snow line, but the sun would be going down soon, and the cold was already biting.









CHAPTER 2

UNRESTRICTED CITIZEN (JIM 1)

Citizenship Act: Revised 2045 
Section 4, Subsection 3 – Citizenship Status
2.1 Citizenship Status Level 7 (Unrestricted Citizen - Permanent) – A citizen that has accrued more than 1500, but less than 1999, citizenship points will be awarded this status.
2.2 Level 7 status allows full and unrestricted access to all Governmental positions. 
2.3 A level 7 citizen will gain priority queueing for all government programs over all citizens level 6 and below.
2.4 A Level 7 citizen’s yearly allowance will be 75,000 fully unrestricted credits; this allowance is paid over and above any private income earned. 
2.5 Credits will expire after 12 months if not used.
2.6 Citizenship points will accrue at 1.25x the normal rate whilst a citizen holds this status. 
#
The sleek, dark grey, late-model EV rolls nearly silent through the city streets. Jim sits relaxed at the wheel, not even glancing where the car takes him.
The car is seamlessly cutting through the traffic, the streets are buzzing with activity, inside the cocoon of the real leather lined car the noise and activity outside doesn’t penetrate enough to disturb Jim from his thoughts, the street nosies pleasantly muffled by the active noise cancelling system.
The car glides past perfectly clean, sleek marble and glass buildings cut through by immaculately manicured gardens of millimetre perfect hedges and impossibly bright flora displays. the dusk sun glinting bronze gold off the mirrored facades of the high rise buildings lined the billiard smooth street. 
Certainly none of the Outer’s drab grey oppressive utilitarian suburbs and far from the Belt’s rust-choked plains, this was the glittering core. Jim has worked hard for years to have left that world behind.
The car alerts and takes a fast and violent swerve, jolting Jim and his wife out of their collective musing, Jim’s wife, sitting next to him, squeals loudly as she loses hold of the tablet she’d been using to search for holiday destinations.
Jim, takes hold of the wheel reflexively, not that it helps, the car has better reactions times then he could ever have. He sees the problem, a work truck lurched off the curb without looking and caused all the around to evade it.
“Damn manual drivers, probability some probationer” Jim mutters using the derogatory term for those who are stuck in menial work. “ Why can’t they just go auto drive like everyone else”
The truck pulls away down a side street, it was a sanitary systems truck.
“At least we can’t smell it” says Jim as he watches is disappear into another building.
Helen picks up the tablet checking it’s ok.
“Jim, be careful, language!” she snaps sharply. “You don’t want anymore speech warnings, not with all the work we’ve done to get to here” Helen gestures around the opulent car interior not looking up from the tablet.
Jim shrugs, this is old territory.
Noticing the streetscape, Sarah says, “This really is the big end of town—just look at all the money here” her excitement building for the evening ahead “I’ve been dying to seeing Shane and Helen’s new place for months, I’m still dissapointed we didn’t get an invite to the house warming”
“Yep, you can smell the status here can’t you, this is where you’d want to be” Jim says just a bit too lightly ignoring the dig that he couldn’t secure the invite.
They both know this is exactly where they want to be, meeting up with Shane at his new place is a big deal for thier plans to climb the ladder, a BBQ with someone like Shane can make things move in the right direction and fast.
“Are you and Helen still talking about the Europe trip?” Jim asks.
“Yes, Helen’s keen on Italy, I’d like France, but it all depends on what kind status we can get with Shane being a Level 9 now… of course Helen didn’t say if he was there or not, she’s keeping that one quiet, but everyone’s got to know right? I mean she was talking about first class ticket for us all, a level 8 can’t afford do that for four people.
“We can barely afford economy right now” Jims says, his mood shifts slightly as his reality as a Level 7 citizen creeps in. 
Shaking the mood off Jim, gets excited again ”a free First class holiday to Europe with a Level 9, guess what, we go wherever Helen wants to go!”
The car softly chimes they have arrived with thier destination, the screen on the console reads: Level 8/9 restricted building, temporary level 7 guest access granted.
Jim raises his eyebrow at Helen as they read the message at the same time “Here we go”
Helen chuckles excitedly, this is going to be an important night for both of them.
#
Shane and his wife Helen greeted them on the 47th floor in the small lift 47th floor lift foyer. The elevator ride was so smooth and quiet you wouldn’t have known it had even moved, it only had one button “penthouse”.
They were both in their mid thirties and exuding that kind healthy, fit and tanned confidence that people from the successful upper managerial classes can pull off with ease. Their clothes fit just about perfectly, their teeth white and straight, their hair expensively groomed, their figures slim and athletic.
Shane was a good two inches taller than Jim’s already impressive six feet and Helen was much shorter. Jim always wondered if they had enhanced thier heights at some point, but you normally ended up with oddly long legs, which wasn’t the case here as with everything else Shane and Helen were in perfect proportion.
Shane embraced Jim in a genuinely warm hug, like long-lost brothers.
“Jimmy! So good to see you, it’s been too long brother, so glad you could finally make it!
Helen similarly embraced Sarah “Sarah! have you been brushing up on your Italian? Benvenuto, entra e rilassati!” 
Helen waved her through the antique wood and iron double entrance doors to the apartment.
Shane followed the with his arm over Jim’s shoulder “I’ve got a meat feast for you tonight my friend!”
Jim could smell it, hints of real smoke, charred meats and tangy sauces, had his tastebuds working overtime already.
The apartment was spectacular, double height floor to ceiling windows on three sides overlooking one of the best views of the city skyline that Jim had ever seen. 
The city positively glowed with the last rays of the setting sun bouncing around between the glass buildings creating a kaleidoscope of reflections.
Shane strode through the apartment to the balcony, Jim trailing in his wake—an oasis 47 floors up. Potted palms swayed in the evening breeze, a strip of impossibly green grass stretching from the balustrade to the BBQ. There, real flames danced over the meat: sausages hissed, ribs blackened, and a rare beef slab oozed juices.
“You weren’t lying about the meat” says Jim incredulously
“Only the best for you Jimmy, I’ve been out here slaving all day to get this ready, come on lets help the girls get the table set-up”
#
Jim and Shane are lounging in the living room, basking in the aftermath of the BBQ, watching the football game on Shane’s brand new 16k 200 inch TV.
The view from the lounge is no less impressive as the neon lights of the city below them waxes and wanes with huge full colour screens advertising everything from the next new phone or car, to the healthiest soft drink ever made to the latest new housing development. 
Building lights twinkle all around them as others go on about their lives, but here up in the Shane’s penthouse, it all seems so calm with the rest of the world so far beneath them.
The doors to the garden are open and the soft rumble of city sounds drift in with the cooling breeze, the occasion blaring horn punctuation the relaxing hum.
Shane ask Jim “Did you want that last sausage? I think that one is a real beef one” and points to the plate on the low marble table in front of them.
Jim pats him stomach “Nah… you go for it, I’m stuffed, I haven’t had that much real meat for ages, I’ll be digesting this for weeks!”
Shane chuckles “Tell me about it, I blew through a couple of months worth of meat points for this” he picks up the lone sausage and bites off a big chunk, with a full mouth “but it was so worth it”
Jim smiles as we watches Shane eat that last sausage, satisfied that even though he gave up some real meat, there was no way he was fitting anything more in. 
Shane casts his mind back to his childhood and clearly remembers his parents doing the Sunday BBQ with real meat when he was a young kid, that’s got to be thirty years ago now.
The limits to meat consumption were small at first, just a restriction of how much you could buy at one time to stop so-called shortages and allow everyone the equal chance to buy meat after rolling global supply issues took most meats off the shelves one too many times. 
Over decades the system evolved to an all inclusive app that accrues what people now call “meat points” or more accurately called the “Government Animal Based Protein Allowance”. 
The system is very highly regulated, each citizen has a certain number of points added to thier allowance each month, the amount of points you get is based on your citizenship level. Jim can afford real meat once or twice every month on his Level 7 allowance.
Points can be used at any government regulated butcher to purchase real meat. If you run out, you just have to wait for the month to click over to reset your points. For most people it’s not an issue as plant based proteins are essentially limitless and free from the government and mostly approximate the taste of real animal based meat. 
In fact more people just eat the plant based without ever dipping into thier meat points.
“You can’t bank meat points anymore, I don’t want to know how you were able to buy so much all at once, my butcher is strictly by the book and won’t go one gram over the monthly allowance”
Shane is licking his fingers for that last taste “You’ve got to shop around, no point just sticking to the one place, there’s always someone will help you out if you help them out.”
“I don’t know man, what if you get caught?”
“Lets put it this way, we’re not sitting here on the 47th floor overlooking downtown if I didn’t ask some questions and bend a few rules” 
Jim looks at Shane, his smile is surprisingly relaxed for someone who just admitted to his cheating the system, a criminal act. 
“I don’t want to know” Jim unconvincingly says as he looks out the window “but I will tell you it is nice view”
Just as Jim is contemplating how you could even bend the rules, his phone gently pings that he has a message from his health app.
[Calorie Alert – you have consumed well above the recommended daily intake of protein and fats. You will need to adjust your diet and exercise regime for the rest of the week. A new menu and work-out program has been uploaded for you. Remember your health is your responsibility]
“Damn it, now I’ll be on oatmeal for the rest of the week” says Jim exasperated.
He notices, Shane’s phone doesn’t ping.
“Hey, how did you avoid a calorie alert?
Shane leans in conspiratorially with a wry smile “Can’t exceed your limit if the system doesn’t know what you’ve eaten”
Jim is genuinely shocked, over allowance meat purchase and now no calorie alert and now telling him for the second time that he’s breaking the system.
“Shane that’s dangerous territory, even for you”
Shane glances over to Helen and Sarah, who not being interested in either the football or eating the last of the meat, are in the dining room pouring over some travel websites on their tablets planning the trip to Italy.
“Don’t worry Jim, we’re safe in here, like I said, if they don’t know what you’re doing they can’t ping you.”
Shane turns back to Jim and points at the 200inch 16k wall panel, the game is playing out on with the sound turned mostly down. It was so good that Jim felt like he was quite literally standing on the sidelines himself.
“I didn’t get the meat, this beast of a TV, or even the apartment by following the rules like everyone else Jim, real life isn’t about waiting in the queue. I keep telling you follow me and the sky’s the limit my friend”
The TV was just one example, of many, how the higher your status was, the more you got. It was one of the next generation 16k TV’s that will eventually be given free to anyone who has enough citizen status points to qualify for the program. 
Much like the previous generations of TVs, this next generation unit was a partnership with the TV manufacturers and the Government to ostensibly get old and energy inefficient TVs out of peoples homes, reducing load on the grid and at the same time ensuring the old units are recycled properly.
No one thought too much about it these days, these tech-government trade-in partnerships started decades ago and are now available on almost anything.
Most people were walking around with the latest free phones, watching TV on their free TV, banking on free tablets pre-loaded with unhackable banking apps, cooling their food in free fridges, driving in free cars… the level of quality and how early you got them after release all dependent on where you sat on the citizenship ladder.
The alliance between tech and government was widely credited with raising the standard of living for the average person who no longer needed to save up for tech or appliances, just sign up to the government program and you get most of the tech at no cost.
That Shane has a this huge top of the line model months before the program will be officially rolled-out says a lot about just how high Shane’s status must be now. 
Not that you could come out and ask, that would be a step too far, most people kept thier points and status quiet, it was after all a competitive market, but you could work out roughly where someone was pretty quickly.
Shane can see Jim’s mind turning over “I can see those wheels turning Jimmy, go on ask what you want to ask, it’s ok”
“Aren’t you worried about losing all of this? “ Jim waves his hand around at the apartment. “I can’t take any risks, Sarah is on a mission to get us up a level and I can’t afford to step out of line anywhere.”
Citizenship status is possibly the most important measure of success in society these days, ever since all the various credit ratings, drivers licence points, health status and a dozen other metrics, including what your phone, TV, fridge and any connected appliance was observing, were merged into the one overarching Citizenship Status.
Jim had made it his mission to climb the ladder as high as he could go. Being a Level 7 sitting on the lounge in Shanes 47th floor two level penthouse couldn’t be further from his upbringings in the Outer. 
The Outer was the slang term for the oppressive grey suburban sprawl where the lowers levels, mostly 3’s and 4’s lived out thier lives working, never ever getting ahead. Whether is was lack of drive or skill only a few escaped, you could do it and Jim had succeeded by working harder than everyone else, every day.
Cultivating friends like Shane was key to his ambitions to make it all the way to the top. Not that Shane wasn’t genuinely a friend, but it didn’t escape him that hanging out with someone of his status could be benefit to his own status. Sarah seemed to think so and was very pleased for Jim to foster this friendship.
Shane now leans forward a bit more until his face is getting almost too close to Jim, his smile and relaxed demeanour hardens slightly and there’s a steely glint in his eye. This was what Shane had been waiting for.
“That wasn’t what you want to ask was it? Go on ask, I dont mind”
Jim feeling the pressure of Shane’s charisma asks “Are you level 9? is this how you get all this stuff, the apartment, the meat, all of it?
Shane looks around again to their wives to see if the are looking and says to Jim “Sure I’m a level 9, I have been for ages, but I didn’t get there and all the extra perks by following the rules, watch this”
He goes to the screen menu on the TV and it shows a bunch of channels that Jim hasn’t seen before, some he knows about, but they are restricted so he’s confused as to why they are now in the menu.
Shane see’s Jims confusion and says quietly, so thier wives can’t overhear “I know a guy can de-restrict the TV, now I can see anything on here and the best part is it’s hidden from the network, they can’t ping me for watching things I’m not supposed to see” Shane gives a derisive snort “Assholes” he growls.
Jim is shocked at how aggressive Shane is, and a little bit excited, “For real, like fully restricted… I call BS on that, they hard-wire the restrictions into the new units nowadays.
Shane responds “I know, you can get some software cheat codes, I’ve tried them before, but they don’t do anything and the TV just sends a signal back to the network that the software is broken and the next morning the software is reverted back to normal”
Jim ask “Doesn’t that ping your score?
“No, the code just looks like a loading error or some random memory issue so they can’t actually prove anything, like I said it’s doesn’t do anything anyway”
He continues “This is way better, my guy installed a hardware bypass chip on the the circuit board that tricks the TV into thinking nothing in the software has changed, but allows it to recieve any signal or feed, kind of like the old school VPNs used to do before they shut them down, only way someone would find out is they open the TV up, I’ve just got to remember to take it out if I ever upcycle to a new unit again”
Jim is incredulous “Fuck man that’s dicey as hell, if you get caught they’ll clip you hundreds of points”
“Technically it would be 500 points and a year’s probation, but don’t worry about it, no one will ever know, the chip is cutting edge”
“Does Helen know?
“You kidding me, no fucking way man, she’ll divorce me for sure!” Shane says not entirely joking. “You know how she’s all about that top tier credit”
“Don’t I know it… Sarah is the same” 
“So lets not tell them then… do you want me to hook you up on the chip? I can have my guy hit up your place anytime and Sarah will never notice”
I can’t risk it, Sarah wants that first class experience you can only get from being a Level 8”
 “Level 8? Really?” Shane seems impressed by Jim’s ambition “That’s a lot of work to get there, are you close?” he asks.
“Not far actually, why do you think I get dragged to all those social courses… bane of my life, I’d rather be anywhere else”
“Love the ambition Jim, lets just say I can help you on your journey, but I’ve got to know you and me are tight. Let my guy come over and fix your TV as my gift to you, on the quiet of course. Don’t hurt my feelings and refuse me now”
Jim’s mind is spinning, Shane will help him
The chose was easy, for Jim “Sure Shane, lets do it”
Shane lets out a breath dramatically “I knew you where ready for the next step Jim!
He calls over to Helen “Hey Hon, any more bubbly left, it feels like the time for another toast!”

#
Jim and Sarah are back in the leather filled cocoon of their later model EV, sliding through the sparse late traffic almost without a sound, outside the city is sleeping and the car is doing it’s best not to wake it.
Inside the car it’s the polar opposite, the excitement is palpable, both Sarah and Jim have exciting news and are bursting to get it out.
Sarah is talking fast “Jim, we were looking at the most amazing villas in Italy,pools, wine cellars, personal chefs, Helen was telling me we should go all out and take three or even four weeks, she was pretty sure Shane could swing it, do you think we can, Jim like really get four weeks?
Jim answers, half-distracted, ‘Four weeks? That’s a stretch…”
Sarah Cuts him off “If they are willing to spend four week with us, just imagine what else they’ll do with us” 
Sarah goes silent pondering the future possibilities.
Jim not noticing says quietly, almost to himself “Shane said he’s take me under his wing I think, he said he help me climb the ladder if I stuck with him”
No reaction from Sarah,
“Did you hear what I said, Shane’s going to help me get to the next level”
Sarah snaps out of her daydream “What? did you just say Shane was going to get you bumped up?”
“Yes, that’s exactly what I said, let me quote “I can help you on your journey, but I’ve got to know you and me are tight”… now that sounds a lot like we’re on the way!”
“Oh My God!” Sarah beams.







CHAPTER 3

FULL CITIZEN (JIM 2)

Citizenship Act (revised 2045) 
Section 4, Subsection 3 – Citizenship Status
3.1 Citizenship Status Level 8 (Full Citizen) – A citizen that has accrued more than 2500, but less than 5000, citizenship points will be awarded level 8 citizenship status. 
3.2 Such status will allow full and unrestricted access to all Governmental positions. 
3.3 A level 8 citizen will gain priority queueing for all government programs over all citizens level 7 and below. 
3.4 Furthermore, citizenship points will accrue at 1.25x the normal rate whilst a citizen hold this status. 
3.5 A level 8 citizen yearly credit allowance will be 150,000 fully unrestricted credits, this amount will be over and above any private income earned. Credits will expire after 12 months if not used.

#
It’s a grey and dreary Monday morning as Jim starts his forty-five-minute commute. It’s early, just after six, as he exits his comfortable but nondescript apartment building on the edge of what would be considered the affluent area of the city, heading toward the glittering lights of the city centre. His car is in self-driving mode and slipping through the wet peak-hour traffic with ease, so he can relax, sip his coffee, and watch the morning news on his console. It’s fast become part of his routine since he earned the credits to upgrade to full self-driving.
This morning, though, he’s ignoring the news. Instead, Jim is sitting back, his eyes closed, savouring the smell of the coffee and musing about the turn his life has taken in the last few weeks. It’s been a roller-coaster ride since his BBQ with Shane and Helen—everything he’s been working toward for years is finally coming to pass. Shane’s guy set him up with the unrestricted TV chip while Helen and Sarah were at work, just days later. Jim is already hooked on the stream of information he’s never seen before—as Shane put it, he’s seeing political views and news that lower-level citizens just aren’t allowed to see, information that will help get Jim ahead.
He looks around the inside of the car. He’s been pretty proud of it since he got it a few years ago—its sleek, dark-grey exterior reflects perfectly that he’s a man on the rise, someone to be noticed. Today, though, it feels old and small. He can’t wait to get rid of it.
His quiet reflection is interrupted by a muffled ping from his phone. “No,” Jim groans to himself. “I’m just not ready for work yet—give me ten more minutes.” He ignores the ping, and as phones do, thirty seconds later it pings again to remind him he has a message. Reluctantly, Jim grabs his phone from his jacket pocket, cautiously opens his eyes, and looks at the message. It’s not from work—it’s from the Citizenship Department, probably just another rule change like all the others they send out. He opens the message:
“Dear Jim Roberts, your status points have been updated. Revisions your the Citizenship Points account have recalculated the value of a number of lead-in points generators. You now have 2512 citizenship points. You have passed the threshold of 2500 citizenship points to be elevated to: Level 8 Full Citizen. Congratulations, your central account and all benefits will be upgraded to reflect your new status. To view your new benefits, log in to your portal.”
Jim sits in stunned silence as his car continues sliding through the wet morning road and navigates the route to his office. He’s numb—this is what he’s been working toward for years. “Level 8!” he says out loud to the empty car. It doesn’t respond. He had faith he’d get there, but he never thought it’d be so soon. His phone starts ringing—it’s Sarah, and she’s excited.
“Jim, did you get a message from the Department? I just did—they revised my points upward. I’m now on 2371 points. I logged into my portal, and it says I’m getting a points bump for being married to a Full Citizen.” Sarah is rapid-fire now. “Did you get a message? Did your points get updated?”
Jim interrupts quickly. “Yes… my points got updated too.” He pauses dramatically. “And you’re now talking to a Full Citizen! Can you believe that?”
“Oh my God, this is amazing! Did Shane do this?”
“Maybe. He said his lawyer would look over my accounts and see if I was missing out. I’m still in the car—I’ll log in to my portal when I get to work and see what’s changed.”
“You know what that means, don’t you?” Sarah says, her voice brimming with excitement about the prospect. “It means our trip to Europe just got upgraded from business to first class—we might even be able to afford to add an extra week! Do you know when the new credits will hit our account?”
“I’m not sure, but let’s not spend the credits until we’ve got them. Let me check on all of that when I hit the office—I’m fifteen minutes away now.”
“Okay, okay, just call me back and let me know… Oh, I’ve got to call Helen and let her know our plans have changed!”
Jim chuckles. “Tell Helen she’s lucky to be going on holidays with us.”
“Ha ha, I will do no such thing! I’ve got to go and call her.”
“Okay, bye,” Jim says, but the call has already ended.
Immediately, Jim calls Shane.
“Hi, Jimmy boy,” Shane answers without the phone even ringing. “It’s a bit early for a social call. What’s going on?”
“Did your lawyer look at my accounts?”
Shane chuckles. “You know, I think he might have mentioned it the other day—something about finding a bunch of points that got missed somewhere. Why?” He knows exactly what’s going on.
“I just got bumped to Level 8—that’s what! Did you do this?”
“I can’t take credit, Jimmy. Maybe my lawyer gave you a little push, but it’s all yours now. Congratulations and welcome to a new life! Let’s do dinner soon, okay? Got to go now—chat later.” The connection cuts, leaving Jim to sit in shock, not knowing what to do next.
#
A few minutes later his car pulls into his spot in the underground carpark at his office. Jim was lucky to get the spot, but that was when he started, he’ll get a better spot now, maybe a level up or closer to the lift.
I’d better not be too full of myself Jim thinks, no one will know yet anyway, your Citizenship Points are not public knowledge, but your citizenship status does have a habit of getting out pretty quickly. 
Most companies HR department have to know what your status is so they can allocate salaries and benefits accordingly, and just like most offices, its get noticed when you get extra benefits and gossip is alway faster than official communications.
Jim jumps into the lift at the carpark, it’s empty at this time of the morning, just how he likes it. Normally he likes to just get into his office and set up his day before too many people start distracting him, today it was entirely different, he needed the early morning quiet time to process what being a Full Citizen meant for him now.
He pressed the button for the his floor, the 57th floor, one of fifteen floors occupied by the Landis Corporation, the commercial risk and consulting firm he works for as a senior mid-level management consultant. 
He been there almost three years now, the company had poached from his old job just after he achieved level 7 status. His old company, a much smaller firm couldn’t really handle the salary he could command once he’d been upgraded, so it was always going to happen, in fact it was all part of Jims plan to climb the ladder.
That how it was in the upper levels of the corporate world, what kind of status you could bring to the company was more important than your skills or education. Which was actually fine by most people as you could climb your way up the pretty far up the ladder without the backing of family money or connections. 
It was universally considered to be a very fair system, you got as far as your actual worth as a citizen, there were no rich freeloaders, or not that many at least.
Steeping out on the 57th floor Jim made his way over to his office past the empty reception, empty boardrooms and past the staff cafeteria, where the cafe staff were just firing up the coffee machine and Jim could see them putting out fresh pastries ready for the early rush, he’d have to come back soon to make sure he got the pick of the plates.
His office was the top end of what his position could get, his work was always exemplary and he’d earned on on the largest offices of the 57th floor. It was tastefully decorated with the typical corporate style that seems to promise luxury and class but never really delivers it. It was big enough for a good sized dark wood veneered desk and matching bookshelf that was packed with neatly arranged and labelled client folders. Across from the desk he had a two seater couch upholstered in uninspiring blue-grey fabric, it wasn’t particularly comfortable, but had been good enough for the occasional late night nap.
It wasn’t until around 7:30 when he was actually at his desk setting up his day enjoying the solitude. He wasn’t expecting an email this early he was surprised by a new meeting request from the People and Culture department at 9am, Jim always had trouble adjusting to the name, it was always HR in his head.
Knowing he had his big client pitch meeting at 9:30am he declined and suggested a new time pushing HR back to 11:30am after the pitch meeting was over.
Almost immediately he received an email from Rosalind the head of the P&C department, it was short and to the point.
“Hi Jim,
I understand you declined the meeting as you had the Industrial Composites pitch meeting this morning. 
Don’t worry about that, John will take over the pitch for today.
See you at 9am!
Regards,
Roslind
Director - People and Culture”
Had his big news hit the office already he wondered, he thought it might take a few days at least. Last time he upgraded his level it had taken a week for his old company to tell him they couldn’t keep him on thier books, it had been nice working for with him and they’d let him stay until he accepted a better offer at a bigger firm.
The Landis Coporation was the top of the game, so it wasn’t going to be that, he was actually getting quite excited about where this was going.
#
It was only a few hours later that he got a text from an unknown number.
The message was perfectly timed to hit his phone just as he was walking out of the meeting with HR. 
He was right to be excited about his future, his newly minted Level 8 status had hit the office already and Landis had offered him a promotion on the spot, moving up to the 50th floor with a nice big pay bump almost doubling his salary. Jim knew how to play the game, if this was anything like jumping to Level 7, he knew he’d have other options, so he told them he’d consider it.
He read the message with growing anticipation.
Hi Jim, Rob here from Nova Corporation, Shane gave me your number. I heard you have some good news, lets meet up for lunch, say 12:30 at Apex? My shout, see you there!
Apex! Only one of the most exclusive restaurants in the district, strictly top tier status. He’d often daydreamed about saving up enough credits and taking Sarah to dinner there one day, but Level 7’s struggled to get bookings. 
He had to stop thinking like that now, he was in the top tiers now.
Jim couldn’t recall hearing of Nova Copoaration, and he’d made it a point to know all of the most prestigious companies, but if Shane had set it up it must be important.
Apex was in a reclaimed old brick warehouse down by the old industrial centre of the city, an architectural voice from the past when this was the industrial heartland of the new government after the Reclamation.
The building exuded a mix of old school bricks and mortar charm, interspersed with flashes of reflective glass and steel that showcased the money and effort it took to restore it and not just knock it down like the rest.
Jim had arrived precisely on-time in the cab Rob had ordered him and was immediately ushered inside by the wait staff, they knew who he was and who he was meeting. For someone who grew up in the Outer, this about as far as one could get from his old life there.
Rob was already sitting at the table, a dark burgundy leather lined booth, one of a number of booths along the old exposed brick walls. He was sipping a red wine whilst reading through some papers he had laid on table in front of him.
He saw Jim and stood to his full six foot three height and offered a very firm two handed handshake “Jim, thanks for coming!”
Jim extricated his hand from Rob’s, it hurt from the pressure of the handshake, sat opposite Rob “Nice to meet you Rob, thanks for the invite… you know I’ve never been here before”
Rob looked around “Oh this old place, it’s nice but there many I think are nicer, it was just close to you”
Jim’s head spun, he thought Apex was the top of the heap.
“So, Nova Corp, I must admit I haven’t heard of your company” Jim inquires.
“No, not many would have, we tend to keep a low profile, but let’s no get too deep into business, let’s eat” Rob points at Jim’s glass that has just been filled with the Red wine “Taste the wine, I’m sure you’ll enjoy it!”
The meal is all that Jim would have expected, not a flavour out of place, perfectly balanced and immaculately presented, and paired with three different types of wine, his head was light and giddy from both the meal and his newly minted status.
Rob, pushing back his empty plate with a satisfied smile on his face, looked across at Jim who had been eyeing his watch for the last twenty minutes. “Jim, do you need to be somewhere” he asks mildly amused.
Jim cautiously answers “Rob, the lunch has been great but we’ve been here for well over an hour now, at some point I do need to get back to work” Jim hopes this pushes the conversation along, which up until this point had consisted entirely about the meal and the wine.
Rob smiles and shakes his head “Jim, you’re not needed back at work, I’m not sure you understand that now you’re a Level 8, the 6’s and 7’s do all the work for you. You and I take as long as we want… welcome to your new life!”
“Ok…” Jim paused and the realisation of what Rob had just said hit home for the first time in visceral sense. 
He was not working for the bosses, he was one of the bosses and the rule had changed for him.
Rob could see his words hit home and pushed “Jim, you’ll get used to it soon enough, I still remember when I got the nod, years ago now, it took a while to adjust, for now sit back and enjoy it”
With that Rob raised his glass to Jim and they silently toasted as Jim decided to do just that, sit back and enjoy his success.
Rob looked around for a waiter to get another bottle of wine “Where are these wait staff, you know customer service has gone backwards so much, I mean these damn level 5 and 6’s sitting on thier universal income and housing doing absolutely nothing to better themselves, can’t even get motivated to being good wait staff” 
Rob on a roll spat our “Just between us, you know what we call them? Troffs, just like little piggies, snouts in the government trough doing nothing.”
Jim was shocked to hear the word said out l;oud, of course he‘d heard it but you’d never say it, but whether it was the wine or the company, he laughed and went along “Troffs, I like it”
Rob nodded “Level 8’s don’t mince words Jim… “ he paused as a waiter filled up his glass and left the bottle for them 
“Now, lets get to business.” Rob said switching to serious mode, gone was the good humour of just seconds ago.
“Nova is offering you the role of VP of Private Client Business, it’s what you’re doing now, just for a select few private clients of ours. Don’t worry, you’ll have a team of 6 and 7’s to do the grunt work, VP’s are there to deal directly with the clients. We’re talking 9 and 10’s Jim, top of the top.
Jim was stuck immovable in his seat, this was more than he’d ever dreamed of, just imagine the connections he could make mixing with the top level elites.
Rob shuffled through the papers he’d put away whilst they were eating, finding the page the wanted.
“We know what you’re on at Landis, and a little birdie told me about the offer they just made. It’s good Jim, don’t misunderstand me, but that’s no place for go-getters like you and me”
Jim still riveted to his seat found his voice “Rob, Landis has been great to me and if you really know what the offer is, you’ll know it’s going to be hard to say no, loyalty is important to me”
Rob smiled wryly “Shane thought you might say that, so we’re prepared to offer you three times the Level 8 allowance in fully private credits, you do what you want with them, no restrictions on what you can use them for… how does that sound?
Jim was stunned, he’d never had private credits before, did he say triple the Level 8 allowance? He really need to keep it cool here, this was the big end of town.
Jim, after pause said a little bit too coolly “Rob, that is certainty some offer you just made, and I really appreciate it. I’m going to have to weight it up with the other offers that might come in and also I’d like to get to know a bit more about Nova Corp first”
Rob, shook his head and leaned in towards Jim “I understand all that, I really do, but Nova is not the same game and Landis or anyone else who will come calling, this is a one time offer that expires right now. If you want in you need to make the choice right here right now” He pushed a contract over to the table to Jim along with a pen and waited expectantly.
Jim was flustered now “Rob, I don’t think I can sign anything now…”
Rob put up his hand interrupting Jim, his tone now hard “Jim, Shane told me you were a risk taker, this offer expires by the time the waiter has cleared this table. In or not?” 
Jim looked around and saw their waiter making her way over to thier table to do just that.
Rob pressed “You’ll never see an offer like this again Jim, and you’ll never ever regret choosing Nova”
Jim felt he was starting to sweat, Rob’s right the offer was simply unreal, maybe this is the way they do business at this level, he’d expected it to be cut throat, but this was something else.
“What the hell”Jim exclaimed as he pick up the pen and signed.
Rob smiled broadly and clapped his hands, “Great choice Jim! Sorry to put you on the spot like that, but we only want people that can handle pressure and make good decisions on the spot”
Jim relaxed, it was done, his future was set now, the sky might not even be the limit.
The waitress had arrived and was clearing the table as Rob and Jim sat in silence, she asked Jim “Sir are you finished with your glass” Jim just waved her away his mind elsewhere.
She cleared the plates, but fumbled his wine glass. With a crash it dropped onto the table and shattered, red wine splashing across the white table cloth and Jim’s brand new contract with Nova.
“Jim without even thinking shouted “Fuck! Watch what you’re doing… do you know what you just did?”
She yelped at Jim tone “I’m so sorry sir, I didn’t mean too, I’ll clean this up right away”
Jim was still angry and barked back at her “Fucking idiot, you’ve just spilled a thousand dollar glass of wine over a contract worth more money than you could even imagine, are you sorry about that” He picked up the now soggy contract stained red with wine and shook it in her face. she recoiled “See that, it’s a real job, nothing like you’ll ever get you fucking Troff”
Rob reached out and put his hand over Jim’s “Alright there Jim, calm it down, we’re still in public” 
Turning to the waitress Rob, smiles and nods towards Jim conspiratorially “Don’t worry about him, he’s just had a big day, it’s just paper we can reprint it anytime… you go head and grab ne the bill sand I’ll get this one one his way home”
The waitress smiles relieved by Rob’s kind touch and takes the empty plates away.
Rob, still holding Jim’s hand with an iron grip, slowly lowers the contract still grasped in Jims hand to the table  “Jim, don’t worry about it, the signature was just symbolic, we got the digital approval when you said yes. Anyway lets get you home my friend, you just cost me a $500 tip, you owe me lunch on your first day!”
Jim relieved now it’s all smoother over, chuckles, “You’re on”


#
The autocab hummed, the quiet rumble of the tyres on the road numbed Jim, just what he needed. 
The three bottles of red wine they consumed over the two-hour lunch weighed heavily on him, his thoughts as blurred as the scenery slipping past on his way home.
Jim sifted the mess of what had just happened. Had he signed a contract without reading it?
He had, but it was more money than he’d ever thought he’d make.
Level 8 was clearly a shark’s game and he’d seen it’s teeth today. Now he had time to breathe, he saw Rob had plied him with drinks and food before hitting him with the deal. Jim resolved to be more careful.
His phone alerted, the noise stabbing at the back of eyes.
A message flared on the screen:
“Dear Jim Dalton, you have been issued a warning: Anti-social Language in a public area. This warning carries a penalty of 50 citizenship points. You have 30 days to appeal this penalty. To view more details, log in to your portal.”
Shit, he was only 12 points over the line for Level 8, barely clinging there by his fingertips. Jim’s head throbbed as the warning clawed deep.
Almost immediately, his phone blared with a call —Shane. The embarrassment from the lunch’s end flooded back in a huge wave; his pulse jumped.
Without opening his eyes, he answered, trying hard to sound light, “Hi Shane, I didn’t expect your call.”
“I hear you’ve got a new job! Congrats!” Shane crowed.
That snapped Jim’s funk—Shane was right; he’d signed on for the biggest job of his life. “Yes, thank you so much for setting up the lunch. I can’t thank you enough.”
Shane was magnanimous. “Jimmy, I might’ve nudged you, but it’s your hard work.”
His tone shifted, serious now. “Rob says you had a bit much wine, want to tell me about it?”
Jim squirmed. “I’m okay, just got excited, that’s all.”
Shane prodded Jim now, “You’ve signed with Nova Corp, where I work. No slip-ups, Jimmy.”
Jim mumbled, “I know, I know.”
Shane pressed, “Anything else to tell me?”
Did he know?
Jim admitted sheepishly, “Yeah, I just got a language warning—50 point, but I can appeal it.”
Shane replied, “Jim, you can’t afford warnings. The job’s Level 8 only. My lawyer will handle the appeal—I’m sure he can sort it—but you’d better stay sharp from now on.”
Jim was flooded with relief Shane understood. “Absolutely, Shane, you won’t need to worry about me.”
The line was already dead. 
Jim sagged back, all his remaining energy bled from him as the cab sliced through late afternoon traffic. He didn’t want to contemplate how close he’d come to ruining it all.






CHAPTER 4

PROBATIONARY CITIZEN (NEIL 1)

Citizenship Act (revised 2045) 
Section 4, Subsection 3 – Citizenship Status
8.1 Citizenship Status Level 3 (Probationary Citizen) – A citizen that been released from full time incarceration will we deemed to be a Probationary Citizen.
8.2 Such a Citizen will start the probationary period of no less than 12 months without any points, but may accrue points throughout the probationary period.
8.3 If a level of 250 points is not achieved in 12 months, the probationary period will be extended until such a level is achieved.
8.4 Such status will allow access to all government sponsored work programs and approved private sector work programs.
8.5 Furthermore, citizenship points will accrue at 0.25x the normal rate whilst a citizen holds this status. 
8.6 A level 3 citizen yearly credit allowance will be 25,000 fully restricted credits, to be used only for food and lodging, this amount will be over and above any private income earned. Credits will expire after 12 months if not used.
#
He is standing in the line waiting to be processed with about twenty or so other prisoners in a large windowless room. It’s lit with the kind of artificial light that makes everyone look like they’ve got jaundice. He thinks it’s odd not to see armed prison guards here, they never let inmates out of sight normally, but as always there are the cameras, silently watching every inch of the room. 
Maybe not having the guards here is one final test, he’s now self conscious.
He’s standing still on a yellow line painted on the polished concrete floor, there are other lines like to his left and right leading his fellow inmates up to the row of counters at the other end of the room, much like an airport passport control, except no one here has been anywhere for a long time.
It’s quiet, there is no talking allowed, the signs on the walls of the room stating this rule were not necessary, everyone in the queue knows the rules and no one is willing to do anything that could stop them from leaving today.
Five years stuck in here, five years of so-called re-education classes, working twelve hours a day, six days a week for a few credits you could blow on chocolate or noodles.
Five years since he’d seen his family, when he came in here he’d left his wife and three kids and they’d long since left him. He left a career as a commercial builder, hell he owned the company, but that’s gone too, seized and sold off by the government who took the proceeds to pay his fines and back taxes, supposedly. He never saw a credit of the business sale, once he was convicted he was disallowed from having any credits, it was like the last decade of his life working, earning and building a nest-egg for the future never existed.
He’s pretty sure his accountant owns the business now, well that’s what he heard anyway. You wouldn’t know once you’re in Jail they allowed no contact with the outside world. Makes sense really, not many people would voluntarily want to talk to an Incarcerated Citizen anyway, it would scrub off too many social association points.
It was a good business too, he’d built up a good team who’d worked for him, staff that has stayed with him for years and were, he’d thought at the time, loyal and perhaps even friends. He had good clients too, the kind that came back and did work with him again and again. He made really good money, more than he probably should have as it turns out, he did offset his profit with his philanthropy and social donations, he’d done free work for underprivileged families that he was genuinely proud off.
He was on track to becoming a Full Citizen around the time he was going to turn forty-five or so. That was the point he thought he could take the foot off the gas and semi-retire, maybe have one of his children start to take over the business as he and his wife did some serious adventure travelling before they got too old to enjoy it. He’d always wanted to hike the Inca Trail to Machu Picchu before he was too old to really enjoy it.
Five years ago it was his plan and his life was good.
Until it wasn’t.
#
The first thing he noticed back on the day changed his life forever just over five years ago was that his bookkeeper hadn’t turned up to work yet, neither had his office manager, which was odd as it was the end of month they had lots on that day, it was even more odd as they normally beat him into the office most days.
Must be bad traffic he had thought at the time and made a note to ask his AI to check the traffic reports when he got to his desk. 
He set about turning the office lights on, his office wasn’t so fancy that the lights were activated when he’d unlocked the front door, he was a builder and didn’t need to waste money on fancy office automations. 
He walked through the small reception area by the empty reception desk, which was more of an office prop than functional, he’d never had receptionist, but he thought the dark wood desk and his company logo in embossed glass on the wall behind it gave just the right impression to visitors. That he made the desk himself gave him a little proud moment each morning, he was always sure to give it a friendly pat when he went past it.
He’d walked past the five small offices, flipping on the lights as he went through to the open area at the back of the office where he could set up the big boardroom desk for important meetings. The small kitchen off to the side was also his handiwork, no point paying someone else when you could do a better job for free, after all what kind of builder would he be if he couldn’t showcase his own work.
He remembers checking that the coffee machine was topped up with water and a fresh roast, and then checking if the fridge had ordered enough milk, bread and snacks for the rest of the of the week. The screen on the fridge was showing the order had been sent and would be delivered in a few hours.
This was such a well trodden path that he’d didn’t even need to think about it, what he actually thinking of was making a mental checklist of all the things he needed to do that day. It was an old fashioned habit the his team ribbed him about all the time calling him the human computer, actually more often an abacus if he wanted to admit it. His team all just relied on thier personal AI’s to set thier days up for them and couldn’t understand why he didn’t follow suit.
The reality was he had never taken to having his personal AI do anything important for him, it just never felt right, sure he used it for menial tasks, but never for anything he could easily do himself, secretly he thought relying on an AI for everything was dumbing everyone down.
With the coffee machine still needing to brew for a few more minutes, he walked the ten or so step to his office, it was the closet office to the kitchen, and did was he always did a the start of every day since he taken the plunge and went out on his own, sat down to check his bank account.
The computer had already turned on and ready for him to start work. His watch had notified the desktop terminal he was at the office as soon as he’d unlocked the door. His desktop terminal knew his routine and had opened up his messages, emails, news and  banking apps before he’d even sat down in his chair.
He reflexively clicked through to the banking app.
[Please Log-in again] was flashing on the screen.
Damn, what’s his password he thought, cursing his decision not to let his AI store it. He thought for a moment and it popped right into his mind.
He entered the details.
[No account know under this name]
Damn, he must have typed it in wrong, it was too early for this crap he thinks. Slowly and deliberately he types it again.
[No account know under this name]
Same message, what the hell?
A new email notification pops up from on the bottom of his screen.
[Message from United Banking Services regarding your account]
Ok good, he thought, they are already sorting the problem.
He opened the email and as he started reading he started to fell a chill descend onto him.
“Dear Customer,
We are writing to inform you that United Banking services is no longer able to provide you with any banking services at this time.
As a result your account has been closed and all funds will be held in trust by the bank until such time as the Court orders appropriate distribution of the funds.
This decision is final and no further correspondence will be entered into.
Regards,
United Banking Fraud Department”
Fraud Department, Funds held in trust, what the fuck is going on here? 
He sat still, not moving, barely breathing and he started to processing it all.
He didn’t get to sit for more than a minute or two,  it felt like mere seconds, before he heard loud banging on the office door as someone was yelling through it. The door wasn’t locked. 
Then all of a sudden, a huge crash as the glass door shattered which snapped him out of the frozen state he hadn’t realised he was in.
He got up to go and see what was going on. He didn’t even get around his desk when black clad heavily armed Police rushed into his office, guns drawn and pointing directly at him
 They were screaming at to get face down on the floor, he hesitated for a split second, this was enough for two of them to crash tackle him to the ground. As soon as he went down his face was showed with prejudice into the carpeted floor and his arms were wrenched behind him and handcuffed.
Despite the handcuffs, the pressure on his face hadn’t let up.
An unknown voice spoke from behind as tactical mask. “Neil Lucas, you are under arrest for bribery, fraud and violations of the citizen code of conduct.”
“Under the revised criminal act of the Bi-Continental Government of the Americas you do not have the right to silence, not cooperating with Police will be held against you in a court of law. You will now be transferred into detention where you will remain until the investigation is concluded and you case is heard before a judge. A lawyer will be appointed to you. Do you understand these rights?”
He could actually respond as the weight from at least three or four Police was pressing him into the floor.
“I’ll take your lack of response as a Yes”
It was only when he was being dragged out of the office that the shock had started wearing off slightly that was able to croak out the words
“You’ve got the wrong person, I haven’t done anything…”
One of the Police who is dragging him to the wagon starts laughing at him.
“We never get the wrong person,

#
He was to learn later at his trial that this was not mere coincidence, both of them had been working with the Police Serious Fraud Division for months passing on information about his business in exchange for immunity.
When they said he was under arrest for multiple bribery and fraud charges, his whole world had turned upside down.
He still wasn’t sure what he had done wrong, he understood what he was eventually convicted of well enough, but that he was at fault and deserved five years in prison is something he had a long tine to think about.
What he actually was guilty of was the well known crime of getting duped by a get rich quick scheme. He reflected long and hard about how he’d been duped into the supposed inside track on a new tendering scheme for government contracts, it had just seemed too real and too easy at the time. 
The scheme had worked really well, he’d won some amazing projects and earned some really good money, the profits in his bank account were definitely not fake. At the time he was surprised to win so many of the projects, it seemed he couldn’t lose. He put in his best offers and he had a good reputation in the industry so he took the wins. What he didn’t know was the whole scheme was fake, they were real contracts all right, but built into the project costings were various bribes to unions, lawyers and crooked businesses. The tenders were deliberately set about ten percent above the actual value, the bribes were already built in and just looked like legitimate payments. 
His company was the lead project manager, so when the money was moved around it was done with his bank and his personal authorisation. Technically that meant he was paying the bribes himself.
Now five years on and the only two things he’d worked out was he was too hungry for success and got blinded by the possibility of his plans coming to pass sooner than he expected, he honestly had pictured himself hiking the world before he was forty , not fifty. The other thing he’d worked out was the people that duped him were much smarter than he was, they’d manipulated him from thier very first meeting and then every step of the way they fleeced the projects until he got arrested.
He’d find them eventually.
Standing in the line to be released from prison he was still white hot angry that being duped and set-up had cost him five years and pretty much everything else in his life. No one else was caught, no one else was even charged, the shell companies just disappeared and the money was moved around so much no one knew where it went, not that they tried too hard. 
The judge didn’t care, it was his name on the payments, he was guilty. The trial took less than a day to play out.
It was his turn to be processed now, how long had he been standing there day dreaming?
He stepped forward to the counter. It was staffed by a women in her mid thirties who was dressed immaculately like one of those high powered lawyers you saw on TV, she smiled a million dollar smile and introduced herself.
“Hello, today’s the big day for you, congratulations! My name is Jocelyn Bates and I’ve been appointed as your case worker for the next twelve months whilst you work through your Probationary status, of course if you don’t earn the required points and your probation is renewed, unfortunately I would not be allowed to continue to work with you, but lets not get too far ahead of ourselves. Can you confirm your name please”
“Neil Lucas”
“Lucas… she looks over her files and picks his out of the pile on the counter in front of her 
“Here we go” She’s reading the summary sheet and her eyebrow raises just a fraction.
“Lucas Construction, 12 counts of bribery, 8 counts of wire fraud and an extra six months added for  not pleading guilty, seems harsh”
“I thought so too” Neil quips.
“Please don’t interrupt Mr Lucas and we’ll get through this quicker”
Neil holds his tongue.
Jocelyn is flipping pages on his files making some quick notes, she doesn’t say a word.
She looks up “Well Mr Lucas, all of this seems in order, you’ve served your full term, there was no early release requested, did you not have a lawyer to do that?”
“No, my court appointed lawyer ignored me after I was convicted and no one would take my calls, I’m surprised I even got a case worker”
“All probationary citizens get a case worker Mr Lucas, who you get is luck of the draw, it just so happens today is my day for social volunteering case work. Don’t worry, we’ll get you sorted”
Neil is getting the impression he’s just a box to tick for his new case worker.
She softens a little “Now, I’m informed that your wife has declined to be the post incarceration contact and you have no other family to stay with, is that correct?”
“Yes”
“Ok we’ll get you set up in some temporary accommodation, you’ll receive your full credit allowance into you account as soon as this day ticks over. Just log-in to your personal portal via this new phone” She picks up a box , one of a dozen or so similar boxes that are on the counter and hands it to him.
“That phone is to be with you at all times, no exceptions. Failure could result in you being arrested again. My number is saved on it and you can contact me anytime if you have any issues, now I might not answer straight away, but make sure you leave details when you leave a message. Other than that we’ll meet up one a month at the nominated offices, the address is on the information sheet” 
Jocelyn hands over a folder, the title on the front reads “Probationary Citizen Information Pack”.
“Good luck Mr Lucas, keep your nose clean and we’ll get you through this so you can start your life again”
She ushers him past the counter to the exit with a small wave.
“Thanks” he say says, but she’s already occupied with a new file as he walks past
#
Neil looks out the window of the grimy autocab that is taking him to his new home for at least the next twelve months. 
He doesn’t recognise the neighbourhood, but he knows what kind of place it is from seeing neighbourhoods just like it on the news, or so he remembers, not being able to watch the news for the last five years.
Its an area of town you avoided if you wanted to keep your status clean, a place where no one over Level  wants to be in by choice, back in the day he would have derisively called it the Outer and refused to take on work out here.
It’s no slum, far from it, the government would never let real dirt and filth stay around long, but it’s not the shiny modern city with lush manicured greenery that you might expect these days. The buildings are much more utilitarian, all raw concrete with the very little to soften the architecture. 
This suburb and many other like it is what society says is the minimum you can live with, enough to keep you safe, sheltered and fed, but with little else. What colour you can see is spontaneous street art, not legal, but it’s not worth it to keep covering it up, so it stays.
Neil is taking it all in, the grey drab scenery affecting his mood. He was already planning how to get out of here, and back to his old world, it would be a grind but he always backed himself.
The Cab stops in front of a small four story apartment building, jolting Neil back into the real world.
The halfway house is a nondescript grey box on a nondescript street, but at least he can see a supermarket and a few shops close by, something to explore once he’s settled in.
He’s greeted at the door by a messy man, tall and quite round, with five day growth about as long as his buzz cut. He’s cleat not soft as his handshake almost crushes Neil’s hand as he introduces himself.
“Hi, Neil? I’m Grant the House Manager, we’ve been expecting you”
He gestures Neil inside “Welcome to your new home, lets go in”
Once inside Grant ushers Neil past the small foyer and reception area into his office. It’s surprisingly clean and well organised, the terminal is pretty late model and the furnishing is new enough to still give off a faint factory smell.
In fact the whole place smells a bit antiseptic.
“Take a seat Neil, congratulations on your first day of freedom!”
Neil laughs “Thanks, was nice to see the back of the prison”
“I’m sure, I’m sure… now lets get you booked in and sorted out, I’m going to run through as few things here for you, standard orientation stuff, but I’m legally obliged to record this and your responses, are you ready?
“Yep, shoot”
Grant takes a beat with Neil’s turn of phrase “For the purposed of the recording Yes is all I need to hear ok?
“Yes”
“Good” Grant presses record on his terminal and starts reading off the screen. 
“Neil, based on the severity of your crimes and the length of you incarceration, you have been assigned to this transitional accommodation for a period of no less than twelve months.
“At the end of the twelve months we hope you have done enough work to be able to vacate this facility and reintegrate fully into society as a productive and lawful citizen.”
“If you have not earned the right to be reintegrated, you will be moved to a more permanent situation supplied by the government. Do you understand?”
“Yes” Neil answers.
“This facility is not free, as part of your path to becoming a productive citizen, it is important that you pay your own way, to that end the costs of living here will accrue for the next twelve months and be converted into a government loan. After twelve months interest, which has been set at the nominal federal rate, will be applied until the loan is paid off. Do you understand?”
Neil was shocked, no one had mentioned this “How much does this place cost?
A raised eyebrow from Grant “Yes only”
“Yes”
Grant continues “You will be assigned employment based on your skill profile, you are expected to remain employed in that role for the full duration of twelve months. do you understand?
“Yes”
Grant clicks a button on the terminal “Ok, that’s done, official part is over… sorry about that it always surprises me how little they tell you about life after prison. If it’s any consolation I didn’t know either”
“You were in jail?”
Grant waves his hand “it was a while ago but nothing changed it seems. Lets get you settled in to your room”
“So how much will I owe at the end of my time here? How am I supposed to build back up?” Neil asks as they leave the office and head to the lift.
“I don’t get to see that info, it’s different for everyone, all depends on what you did and who you were before. It’s all on that new phone they gave you, you just have to look it up”
They stop on the third floor, Grant walks Neil to one of the eight apartments on the floor, 307 and opens up the door. “It’s coded to you, and also to me if I need to go in for any reason, although I never do. The bus will be out the front at 6:30 am sharp to take you to work, don’t be late it doesn’t wait for anyone. There’s some food in kitchen, my welcome gift to you, and some work clothes that should fit you, you’ll have your monthly credit in your account now so from now on anything you want is all up to you.
Neil steps in to the apartment and asks “Work, where am I working?”
“Like I said, I don’t get to know that, just get on the bus tomorrow at 7am sharp… oh and the curfew here is 8pm, which was about twenty minutes ago, so you’re in for the night now, but the rec room is open all night, it’s just behind the reception downstairs.” 
Damn, Neil was looking forward to taking a walk later, and he had so many more questions for Grant, but he was already back down to corridor getting in the lift.






CHAPTER 5

THE OUTER (NEIL 2)

Neil inspected the apartment, a small and uninspiring one-bedroom unit. He walked the well-worn track in the dull grey office-grade carpet from the front door to the small galley-style kitchen perched on one side of the dark open-plan space. 
The air hung heavy with the faint smell of a thousand previous meals, no one odour winning the battle; the echoes of those meals reminded Neil he was hungry. He opened the kitchen cabinets on the wall, the doors having long since lost their perfect white luster. The waft of disinfectant assaulted his nostrils—at least it had been cleaned, he thought. The gift of food from Grant turned out to be a box of five packets of instant noodles. 
He opened the dented fridge door—nothing. He dropped into one of the chairs at the small round dining table, the plastic veneer of its surface scratched and cold under his touch. 
Neil sat silently, taking in his new home. A faint, almost imperceptible buzz emanated from the old TV, even when it was off. The thin walls did little to block the muffled sounds of neighbouring apartments, a constant low rumble of other people’s lives. 
That’s enough feeling sorry for myself—from here on, I only move forward, Neil scolded himself. He set about preparing the noodles—he was well-practiced; this was prison food. 
He slumped into the couch, instant noodles cooling in a cracked bowl on the small coffee table in front of him. The aroma from the noodles, a chemical sweetness, was the only thing that could overpower the other smells in the room. The relative quiet and dark was a welcome change from the constant noise and light of the prison life he’d left behind. 
Neil pulled out the phone they’d given him. It wasn’t new and was almost without any apps—he’d already tried to install news and opinion ones on his trip here, simple things he’d used back in the day, but it was all blocked. Sighing with sudden weariness, he checked his Personal Citizenship Points Portal, or PCP, as it was most commonly shortened to. 
His monthly point allowance had been deposited—just over 2,000 credits, barely enough to live on and a far cry from the 6,000 baseline credits he’d received as a Level 7. Neil wondered how much he’d get paid over and above the baseline in the new job and was plotting what he’d do once he started climbing back up the ladder. Sure, he’d need patience, but he’d built his business from scratch before, and he was confident he could do it again. 
Then he noticed an extra line on his points statement: Government housing loan accrual: 1,000 credits. That was half his monthly allowance! How the hell could he get ahead? 
Neil sat there, stunned; he’d owe almost half his year’s baseline credits at the end of the twelve months, and then they’d add interest on it. He sat on the worn couch, the street light outside bleeding through the too-thin curtains, and silently raged against the system. 
They wouldn’t break him.
#
Neil had no chance of missing the bus in the morning; he simply hadn’t slept. He’d lain in bed replaying the events of the last five years in his head, snippets of thoughts flashing in and out of his mind’s eye in the half-awake, half-sleeping hours before the sun rose. 
It was old territory, nothing he hadn’t done countless times in jail. He’d thought he might leave it behind when he finally got free—he was wrong; it followed him. 
The bus was almost full by the time it got to his building. He didn’t feel like talking to anyone, so he’d waited in his apartment until it had arrived. Neil was in no mood for socialising this morning. 
He sat in an empty row a few rows behind the driver, hoping he was the last onto the bus. 
He wasn’t. Just as the bus doors closed, a tall, wiry man burst through the front doors of the apartment building yelling, “Wait, wait…” and sprinted after the bus that was already gaining speed to its next destination. 
The bus driver swore and slammed on the brakes, jolting everyone on board forward violently. The passengers universally responded with a chorus of profane complaining. 
In the row behind him, a large man, easily outweighing Neil by fifty pounds of muscle, yelled, “Hey Mike, where’d you learn to drive? You owe me a coffee!” 
There was a round of agreement. 
The man caught up to the bus and jumped through the doors, thanking the bus driver profusely. “Hey Mike, thanks, man—you know I’m never late. I owe you one!” 
Mike said, “Be on time—there won’t be a next time.” 
The man looked around and saw the empty seat next to Neil. 
Shit. 
The passenger behind Neil was still grumbling along with some others about the sudden stop. He said to the man as he got to Neil’s seat, “Hey, man, you’d better not be late again—now you owe me a coffee!” 
The man calmly stared him down and coldly said, “Tully, I don’t owe you anything. Last I remembered, you owed me something.” 
Tully pushed back. “I ain’t got nothing for you and didn’t owe you shit.” 
The man, still standing in the aisle as the bus pulled away from the curb again, sighed. “Okay, Tully, some people will be disappointed, but hey, it’s your choice.” 
Tully paled slightly at the mention of the other people. The bus was deadly quiet, all the passengers fixated on this confrontation. Neil worried he’d end up in the middle of a brawl on his first full day out of prison. 
Tully’s seatmate nudged him. “Tully, don’t—it’s not a fight you want to pick.” 
Tully looked down, suddenly engrossed in his phone. 
The man sat next to Neil and, with a smile, introduced himself. “Hi, friend, name’s Rook—not my real name, but everyone calls me that.” 
Neil reluctantly engaged Rook. He nodded his head toward Tully sitting right behind them and said quietly, “Is this going to be a problem?” 
Rook laughed. “Nope, Tully’s all talk. We just had some business that he didn’t get around to finishing yet—don’t worry, no brawl on the bus today.” 
Neil relaxed very slightly, still ready for something to kick off. 
Rook continued their conversation with far too much energy. “So, you’re new—when did you get out?” 
Neil again reluctantly responded—this was exactly what he’d been hoping to avoid. “Yesterday.” 
Rook blew out his cheeks. “Wow, total green! Don’t worry, it’s a blur at first, but you get used to it. Though some days I can’t tell the difference between this and jail.” 
That did nothing to help Neil’s mood; he didn’t respond. 
Rook looked appraisingly at Neil, nodded, and said gently, “Don’t want to chat this morning—no problem, I get it; we’ve all been there. Remember this: you need friends outside just like you did on the inside. If you ever want to chat, my name’s Rook.” 
With that, he put his head back and went to sleep.
#
Neil stared out the window, his eyes unfocused as his mind wandered, not noticing as the bus left the Outer’s grey suburbia, leaving behind block after block of squat apartment buildings, strip malls, and entertainment centres. 
The bus passed over the long viaduct that separated the Rust Belt factories and warehouses from the city’s edge. The viaduct was three lanes in each direction and arrow-straight for at least two miles as it stretched over a vast flood plain, the result of a past environmental catastrophe from before the Reclamation. 
Neil had never been here—it was always out of sight and out of mind for a Level 7 in his former life. Of course, he knew about the Rust Belt; it was storied history that the factories here had helped rebuild the Bi-Continental Government of the Americas after international trade collapsed. 
They had passed over the viaduct now into Rust Belt proper—miles upon miles of mega factories and warehouses, with business parks holding hundreds of smaller factories and warehouses. Unlike the grey and grime of the Outer’s suburbia, there was colour here; the buildings were bright and clean with corporate logos, company colours, and murals splashed across the huge walls. The lawns and gardens lining the driveways into each building were green and well-maintained. 
Corporations always want to look good, Neil thought. 
Rook was awake and had been watching Neil look out through the window, as if appraising him. He matched Neil’s gaze. “Yep, here it is—the beating heart of the country, the place that makes everything and saved us all. Look at all that money just oozing out of every building… and we here on this bus kept it all ticking along.” 
Neil didn’t respond; instead, he kept surveying the scenery. He recognised some of the names—they were suppliers he’d used. 
Rook didn’t let Neil’s lack of response stop him. “You know, without us 3’s and 4’s, nothing would’ve gotten made. The whole world needed us to be exactly where we were.” 
Neil wasn’t used to this kind of talk, and the inference annoyed him. He looked at Rook, who was smiling expansively. “That’s not true at all. I built things—lots of things—before…” 
Rook interrupted, ice in his eyes. “Sorry to burst your bubble, Neil, but you built things only because of the suppliers we created out here. Without us, you would’ve made exactly zero.” 
Neil froze. Rook’s use of his name was a shock. “I didn’t think I’d given you my name.” 
Rook’s steely eyes didn’t waver as he stared right through Neil. “Neil, I knew who you were before you even arrived at your apartment last night. In fact, the people I know watched your trial. Like I said, you need friends out here, and I think you and I can help each other.” 
Neil remembered how the bus had silenced when Rook mentioned his friends and was now genuinely worried. “Look, I’m just here to do my time in probation and get back out into the world without any trouble.” 
Rook laughed, the cold glint in his eyes never leaving. “Get back? What, to Level 7? You’re stuck here like the rest of us. You think you’ll be able to pay off your Housing Loan? Think they’ll let you get out of the grind? No, my new friend, they need us out here so they could sit in their shiny glass towers and sip champagne.” 
Neil wasn’t going to be stuck out here longer than necessary; he already had a plan in mind to get out. “Listen, Rook, is it? I don’t know about you, but I’m not some loser who’s stuck here. I’ll get back up and leave this place—and people like you—behind.” 
Rook shook his head in disappointment, like Neil had failed a test. “Five years in prison, and you’ve still got the Level 7 attitude. Piece of advice from someone who knows—keep that kind of talk under wraps.” 
The bus jerked to a stop, and the PA system barked mechanically, “Destination reached, all off the bus.” 
Neil started to get up, and Rook grabbed his arm—his grip was strong and practiced. Neil couldn’t break it in the confined space of the seat row. Rook leaned in and said tightly, “When you work out how fucked you are, I’ll be here.” 
Neil squeezed past, shook Rook’s hand off his arm, and marched off the bus with the rest of the passengers without looking back.
#
Neil got off the bus and looked around. They’d stopped at a small covered bus stop on one side of a wide cul-de-sac, big enough for double semi-trailers to turn around in. 
The group of passengers—Neil thought about thirty or so—milled about, chatting for a moment until it broke apart as groups of twos and threes split off and headed to various factories. He could see another bus coming up the road, ready to dislodge its group of workers. If Neil could have seen further, he’d have seen hundreds of similar buses ferrying workers in and out all day and night. 
Confused about what was next, Neil awkwardly stood at the bus stop. “Where the hell do I go?” he thought as he watched Rook walk away with a small group of workers to one of the factories. 
One of his fellow passengers, a robust shorter man who seemed to be dressed a bit better than the utilitarian work clothes everyone else, including Neil, wore, approached and shot out an enthusiastic hand to shake. “Neil? Neil Lucas?” 
Neil responded as the man shook his hand wildly. “Yes, that’s me.” 
“Excellent, I’m Knox. We didn’t get a chance to meet before you got on the bus… I’m your sponsor.” Knox, still grasping Neil’s hand, ushered him towards the only office building in the cul-de-sac. “This is us over here. You must have done something right—you’ve got an office job, just like me…” 
Neil, reclaiming his hand and walking with Knox towards the ten-storey glass office building, his mind trying to catch up, asked, “Sponsor? I’m sorry, I don’t know anything about that.” 
Knox sped up the pace and dragged Neil along. “They still told you absolutely nothing when you left prison—nothing ever changes. Don’t worry, we’ll have time to talk about all of it today whilst we get you settled in.” 
Knox and Neil were in the HR department waiting room on the second floor. It was stark and almost hospital-like; the walls were a uniform beige, dotted here and there with low-quality reprints of once-famous landscapes. Neil sat one seat away from Knox on a harsh and unforgiving plastic chair, one of about half a dozen against the wall. 
It was only Neil and Knox waiting. Neil figured by the wear on the carpet this was a busy department. 
Knox sat back, like he was preparing for a long wait, and started talking. “So, welcome to your new job. You hit the jackpot being qualified for an office job! I myself used to be an accountant before… all this.” He waved around the room. “I understand you were in construction before?” 
Neil answered, “Sort of. I used to own a construction business.” 
Knox said, “That’s close enough. From what I understand, you’ve been allocated a project management job here—not many of those going around.” 
“I’m not really a project manager,” said Neil. 
Knox said, “It doesn’t matter. Do your best.” 
Neil considered Knox’s statement. He wasn’t actually sure what he’d expected, but project management was something he probably could do—at least it wasn’t a factory job. 
Neil ventured, “You mentioned sponsor?” 
Knox smiled. “Yes, more tour guide and mentor—just someone who knows the ropes and can help get newbies like you settled into their new routine. Just think of me as your personal AI, since you can’t have one right now. Anything you need to know about life after prison, I’m here to help.” 
Knox’s tone changed. “Speaking of learning the ropes, what was that with Rook when you got off the bus?” 
Neil stiffened. He wasn’t sure anyone else had seen it. “Nothing, just a misunderstanding.” 
Knox pressed, “It didn’t look like nothing. Rook is not someone to have a problem with.” 
“You know him?” asked Neil. 
Knox looked around, assured they were alone, and spoke quietly. “Rook is part of the Greys. They are not people you want to be associated with.” 
“Who are the Greys? I’ve never heard of them,” Neil said, curious. 
Knox shifted over to the seat next to Neil and leaned in close, almost whispering. “One of those things you never heard about in the city. The Greys are a group who opposes the system we live under. They’re always looking for ways to break it. They are not nice, and quite a few people have been burnt by them—literally.” 
The thought of an under-the-radar group who wanted to break the system was a shock to Neil’s Level 7 view of the world. 
They were interrupted when the door to the office opened abruptly. A very well-dressed and presented lady barked, “Neil, which one of you is Neil Lucas?” 
Neil put his hand up. 
“Come with me,” she said as she retreated back into the office. 
Neil followed her into the office. It was large and housed half a dozen workstations, all occupied by office workers at their terminals or on the phone. The buzz of activity was a stark contrast to the quiet of the waiting room. 
She sat at her workstation and gestured to Neil to sit in the chair opposite her desk. 
“Sorry about that. Normally, the waiting room is full, and I have to make myself heard. I’m Eleanor. I’ll be getting you all set up with your new job.” 
Neil, sensing she was trying to be helpful, said, “Nice to meet you, Eleanor. I’m kind of in the dark about what’s going on here.” 
She laughed. “Well, I’m here to help you out.” Looking at her terminal, she clicked through a few screens. “It says here you used to own a construction company… perfect. We’ve got you a role as a Project Management Assistant here at Stratum Projects.” 
Eleanor saw Neil’s reaction. “Sorry, but that’s about as high as you can go being a Level 3. Actually, it’s better than I’ve seen most get—you must have some friends out there somewhere.” 
She continued, “So, I need to tell you this isn’t like a normal job. First, you’ve got to be here on time at 8am—don’t miss the bus—and you’ll finish at 6pm each night. You got Sundays off, and for the next 12 months, you’ll get no holidays.” 
Neil reacted angrily. “Ten hours a day, six days a week? I was better off in prison!” 
She moved forward over the top of Neil’s protest. “Now, if you were late, you’d get penalised points—same if your performance reviews were sub-standard—but this job will be easy enough for you, so you shouldn’t have an issue.” 
Neil interrupted, “…but I’ve done my time in prison. This seems completely unfair…” 
Eleanor shook her head at Neil. “I’m going to have to remind you—you’re a Probationary Citizen. Whilst you transition back to being an unrestricted citizen, you’re not completely free. You’d better understand that really quick.” 
She continued, any of her goodwill towards Neil now long gone. “So, as a Probationary Citizen, you were not entitled to any salary over and above your Baseline credit allowance. We don’t do overtime here, so there’ll be no extra work.” 
Eleanor checked a few boxes on the terminal and finally said, “That’s it, Mr Lucas. You can go now. Knox will get you situated in the office. If you have any questions about your employment here, be sure to address them with your direct manager. Goodbye and best of luck to you.” 
He was dismissed. 
Neil left the office without another word, fuming. The anger he’d pushed down last night flared back hotter than ever. “I’m just a fucking slave here,” he thought, as the realisation sank in that he might just be stuck here forever.
#
The first day went by in a flash, Neil wasn’t in the mood to be social but he forced himself to be. This was his life for the next twelve months one way or another so he’d just have to make the best of it.
Knox was a dutiful guide, he seemed to know everyone and wasn’t afraid to gossip about them behind their backs. Neil didn’t really listen, but he humoured Knox, Rook’s words “you need friends out here” still ringing in Neil’s ears.
The job was simple, Neil was going to be filing and doing general administrative jobs for the project management office. A glorified errand boy for people who knew far less about construction than Neil did.
Neil guessed they’d thought with his experience, he’d know his way around organising all the plans, manifests, quotes and surveys large construction projects would have. Thet weren’t wrong, he be able to the job with his eyes closed, and perhaps with a bit of spare time he could figure a way of getting out as quickly as possible.
He was one of five assistants to the project office, Knox had introduced him to all of them, but Neil had already forgotten thier names. Knox himself wasn’t one of them, he worked in different department completely.
Right on time the bus arrived at the stop, 6:30pm, the sun was setting in the late summer heat and everyone piled onto the bus. It was a different crowd, he only recognised a few faces. 
Neil sat and scanned the faces getting on he was relieved when he didn’t see Rook get on. 
Tully from the morning bus ride sat next to Neil, he hadn’t realised just how large Tully was in the morning, he was as tall as Neil, but he must have been at least 240 pounds of muscle.
Tully extended his hand “Hi, names Tully, didn’t catch yours this morning”
Neil accepted the handshake, it was a more gentle than he expected, the faint smell of oil and grease in grained in Tully’s hand hit Neil’s nose “Neil, good to meet you”
Tully asked “They’ve got you over in Stratum Projects, very cushy, everyone wants an office job” he spread his hands wide for Neil to see, the black line under his nails made it clear he got dirty for his job “How’d you swing that?”
Neil shook his head “I have absolutely no idea”
Tully laughed “I have a feeling you’ll find out soon enough… now if you don’t mind I’m going to get some shut eye, us factory workers don’t get to sit down all day in air-conditioned comfort”
Neil wanted to ask what Tully meant, but it was clear the conversation was over, he sat in silence for the rest of the ride, Tully softly snoring beside him.

















CHAPTER 6

DISRUPTIVE PERSON (JIM 3)

Citizenship Act (revised 2045)
Section 4, Subsection 4 – Temporary Status – (A) Disruptive Person
1.1 The designation of Disruptive Person can be applied to any citizenship level.
1.2 Such a designation will be applied to a Citizen who displays either: a single severe anti-social behaviour incident as reported by no fewer than 10 other citizens, or at least 3 incidents of anti-social behaviour as reported by no fewer than 5 other citizens.
1.3 A Citizen will be designated a Disruptive Person for a period of 12 months.
1.4 Designation as a Disruptive Person does not alter a Citizen’s status points or level.
1.5 A Disruptive Person will accrue penalty points at twice the normal rate for the period of the designation.
1.6 If a Disruptive Person has an anti-social incident as reported by no fewer than 5 other citizens during the 12-month period, the citizen will be automatically re-designated a Level 3 - Probationary Citizen (Temporary).
#
This was the day he’d been working towards almost his entire life, chasing down every points hack and social credit programme he could find. All the relentless networking and arse-kissing of higher levels had paid off.
Today was the day Jim left Level 7 behind and assumed his new life fully as a Level 8 Full Citizen. 
Today, Jim was leaving the Landis Corporation for good and starting as the new VP of Private Client Business at Nova Corp.
Sarah had been busy getting Jim’s wardrobe ready all week. Jim was impressed at how quickly she’d got the tailor to make his new suit; it had arrived just three days after the fitting. Helen had put her onto the tailor—the same one Shane used—and she was just as excited as Sarah was.
It was perfectly tailored to fit Jim’s lean but athletic six-foot frame, not a crease or seam out of place. It was real merino wool in a charcoal grey with a subtle pinstripe.
Sarah had matched it with a new real cotton white shirt and a gold silk tie.
“Gold for success and luck today,” she had said as he’d left for work.  
The news of his signing had hit Landis almost immediately, and they had arranged a big farewell that morning before his start at Nova Corp. Jim couldn’t help thinking that the farewell morning tea was as much for their benefit as his. He knew all too well how important making friends with higher levels was.  
Jim was relaxing with his EV in auto-drive, as was his habit, putting together in his head a few kind and humble words for his old team. His heart wasn’t in it—he really just wanted to move on and forget them. They’re just stepping stones, he thought, necessary evils on my path to the top. He admonished himself—he’d better make it good; there would be no more repeats of the arrogance he’d shown at Apex. That could have really blown up in his face. But I’m Level 8 now, I’m untouchable. Luckily, Shane’s points lawyer had made sure the incident never saw the light of day again.  
His phone rang. It was the car dealership.
“Hello,” Jim answered.
“Good morning, Mr Dalton. This is Jackson, the Sales Manager at Citadel Prestige.”
“Hi, Jackson, good to chat to you again. Have you got news?” Jim asked.
“I do, Mr Dalton. We’ve been able to find a current-year Lumora Model 9 in slate grey with a light tan interior; however, it will take about a week to get here from another dealer.”
“Excellent news. I’m glad you could find one—I was worried I’d have to buy a slot in the production line six months down the track!” Jim was beaming at this news.
“Well, we do aim to satisfy our clientele, Mr Dalton. If you’d like to drop into the dealership anytime in the next few days with your current vehicle, we’ll do an appraisal on it, and we can also sign the contract in person,” Jackson said smoothly.
“Sure, give me a day or two, and I’ll drop down,” said Jim.
“One last item, Mr Dalton. Could you please authorise the deposit so we can secure the vehicle? As you know, we will need a deposit of 50%, which is 100,000 credits.”
Jim sucked in a breath abruptly as the size of the deposit hit him. He’d only just received his first year’s 150,000 credits as a Level 8 a few days ago, and he hadn’t started at Nova Corp yet.
“Approved,” Jim said hesitantly. He’d never paid that much in one transaction—not even close.
“Thank you, Mr Dalton. The deposit has cleared. Look forward to seeing you in a few days.”
Ouch.
#
The offices of Landis Corp felt different that morning. It was odd how much his perception could change in only a week. What he used to think of as a reasonably well-appointed office space, where he had one of the better offices, just seemed worn and tacky now, like a veil had been lifted from his vision, showing him a reality he’d been avoiding.
Last week, Jim had been a valued member of the team, easily interacting with his peers, chatting with them with a relaxed ease, gossiping, joking, and talking business without any barrier.
Today, that ease had gone. He was not one of the team. His work colleagues seemed oddly subdued around him—not unfriendly, but the casual camaraderie was gone. Conversations he’d had a mere seven days ago were now forced, subtly calculated to curry favour with Jim in his new position.
Jim felt awkward, and he was glad this would be over soon. He just wanted to be done with this morning tea and move on to his new role at Nova Corp.  
He had been to his new office only a few days ago to pick out some of the decorations for it. Calling it an office almost didn’t do it justice. It was on the corner of the 45th floor, just three levels down from the Executive Clubhouse on the top floor of Nova’s new building. The space was at least three times larger than where he was sitting now, not counting the large marble-clad private bathroom complete with shower and walk-in wardrobe.
He had picked out some tasteful original seascapes for the walls under the watchful eye of his new Executive Assistant and was keen to see if they’d match the paint colour he’d chosen.
He had to close off his work here first, and daydreaming about an office he could be in right now wasn’t helping if he didn’t wrap up this waste of time.  
Jim had one final email prepped and ready to send before the gathering in the Carter Room in ten minutes to say his official goodbyes.
He sent it and logged off for the final time.
“Damn it,” he thought. He’d forgotten to attach his working files.
Jim tried to log back in to the terminal.
[User Not Found – Please Check Username or Password]
He hadn’t typed it wrong—after years, logging in was muscle memory now. He tried again.
[User Not Found – Please Check Username or Password]
Had they off boarded him already? Jim guessed it didn’t really matter; they’d find the data easily enough.  
His phone chimed with a new message.
It was from his Personal Citizenship Points Portal.
“Dear Jim Dalton, we have completed the review of your warning: Anti-social Language in a Public Area and concluded the warning to be in error.
In light of recent evidence provided by multiple parties, the warning has been upgraded to: Serious Anti-social Language in a Public Area Causing Offence.
This warning carries a penalty of 500 citizenship points.
Due to the serious nature of the offence, you have been designated a Disruptive Person.
This designation multiplies the penalty to 1000 citizenship points.
You now have 4012 citizenship points.
You have been reallocated to Level 7.
There is no further appeal to this penalty. To view more details, login to your portal.”  
Jim’s world shook. He sat back down in the chair with a lifeless thud, his ears ringing and stars in his eyes, like he’d just been hit across the back of the head.
He was motionless, staring at the screen.
“This isn’t real,” he thought. “how can this be real?”  
Rosalind, the head of People and Culture, knocked on his office door.
He hadn’t seen her approach. He hadn’t registered anything apart from the message on his phone. Startled, he looked up.
“Hi Jim, I think we’ll just cancel the farewell speech now. If you could make your way out of the office now, please,” Rosalind said, gesturing out the door where two Landis security guards were waiting.
“You’re escorting me out? Really?”
“I think it’s for the best, Jim, if you just go now,” Rosalind said calmly.
Jim was getting angry now. “I’ve been here over three years, and you’re going to treat me like this?”
“Jim, you don’t work for Landis anymore. As of right now, you’re trespassing. I can have these men make you leave, but I think we’d all prefer to avoid that,” Rosalin said with a cold finality.  
Jim felt as if he was in a dream, sleepwalking out of the office. His brand-new suit sat heavy on him, his gold tie screaming of his failure as he walked by colleagues he’d known for years. He looked at them, and they all turned their faces away as he was escorted to the lift.
Rosalind spoke as they waited for the lift. “Jim, these two will escort you to your car and let you out of the car park. It’s my duty to inform you that you are no longer welcome in this building. Please don’t return for any reason. If there are any personal items you’ve left behind, be sure to email my department, and we’ll ensure they are sent out to you.”
That was it, no goodbye or good luck from people he’d worked with for years.
The lift arrived, and Jim and the two security guards stepped into it. Through the closing doors, he could see that Rosalind had already turned her back on him.
#
Jim was sitting in his car silently, the leather seats and luxury trim a welcome familiarity that helped block out the outside world. 
He read and reread the message. It still didn’t seem real. Words kept repeating over and over again in his head.
Multiple sources, Serious Anti-social Language in a Public Area Causing Offence Disruptive Person.
He felt hollow as if his colour has been stripped away from him.
After a few minutes he sighed and decided to deliberately change the way this day was going. He was going to fight this.
Jim dialled Shane’s number.
It didn’t ring, instead it went directly to a recorded message
“We’re Sorry, You Have Reached a Number That Has Been Disconnected or Is No Longer in Service”
What the hell?
He dialled Shane’s number three more times and three more times he heard the same automated message.
“We’re Sorry, You Have Reached a Number That Has Been Disconnected or Is No Longer in Service”
Jim’s newly found resolve cracked a little, Shane and his Lawyer were the first step to reversing all of this.
His personal AI chimed, he was due at Nova Corp in thirty minutes. 
Damn it, Jim realised he’d lost complete track of the time.
He called his new executive assistant.
The call was answered immediately “Nova Corp, Rachael speaking” 
Relieved this call was answered, Jim put on a cheerful voice said “Hi Rachael, It’s Jim Dalton here, just letting you know something came up and I’ll be a few minutes late for my induction meeting, if you could let Rob know please”
Silence on the other end of the call
“Hello?” Jim asked
“I’m so sorry Mr Dalton, I’ve been told to cancel all your appointments, please hold whilst I transfer your call” The line clicked over to hold music before Jim could say a word.
Does, Nova know? Jim thought as the soothing classical hold music played. 
He didn’t have to wait long, the call was answered by another professional female voice “Hello Mr Dalton, you’re speaking with Grace, Mr Hughes Assistant, what can I help you with today?”
Jim was taken a back by the question, it didn’t make any sense.
“Rob Hughes? is Rob available?” Jim asked
“Unfortunately Mr Hughes is unavailable, how can I help you?”
Again with the question, Jim’s mind was turning but unable to comprehended what was going on, he forced himself to clam down
“As I said to Rachael, I’m running a few minutes late for my first day there and just wanted to let Rob know, it took a bit longer than anticipated to say my goodbyes at my my old job” Jim was sweating.
“Mr Dalton, I don’t have you in the schedule for today, are you sure you have the right number?” Grace asked sweetly.
Rob answered his frustration a growing “Look, I’m starting there today as the new VP of Private Client Business, Rob was going to show me around a get me introduced to everyone” 
“I’m sorry Mr Dalton there is nothing on the schedule like that today, I can assure you that if a new VP was coming onboard today I’d know about it, are you sure you know Mr Hughes?” Grace’s voice never wavered from the corporate blandness.
“Well Grace, I can assure you I am starting today, Rob and I had lunch at apex last week and I signed the contract” Jim was starting to loose control.
“Mr Dalton, you’re getting quite agitated, please lower your voice. I’m looking at Mr Hughes calendar right now and he did not have lunch at Apex last week, furthermore a quick check of our staff portal shows no one under the name of Jim Dalton is employed here” Grace seemed to be losing her practiced patience just a little.
They’ve cut me loose, I’m not longer a Level 8 and they are denying I ever was thought Jim.
He didn’t have a response.
Grace asked “Mr Dalton, are you there?”
Jim answered, defeated “Yes, so I’m done there, before I even got started, is that how this is going to play out?”
Grace’s professionalism was back “I’m sorry Mr Dalton, it seems Nova Corp has no record of any dealings with you. Thank you for your time and have a great day!”
Jim didn’t bother hanging up, Grace cut the line as Jim dropped the phone into his lap and slumped back into the driver seat his eyes squeezed shut so hard he was seeing shapes in the darkness, his hand balled into fists pressing against this temples. 
Thankfully the one-way window tint didn’t didn’t allow anyone to see into the car.

#
Jim’s day, and life, was spiralling out of control.
Get it together, now! he told himself
Take stock of the situation and come up with a plan, he’d always backed himself and now wasn’t the time to buckle under the pressure. Where to start though, the job at Novas was gone as was his new Level 8 status. 
At least he was still a Level 7 and if he had to wait out year living like a monk as a Disruptive Person, he could do that. Jim had worked his way up from the lower levels in the Outer, so living as a Level 7 was never going be problem..
Jim was moving forward again, just like his mind was pushing forward with plans he got his car moving too, with nowhere else to go home seemed like a good option right now.
With a destination locked into his EV, Jim could relax a little and consider his situation further. 
His old job at Landis was burnt, but his skills still had to be in demand. He might have to take a few steps back down the corporate ladder, but Jim was sure he’d find a place to recover and quietly work his way back up. After all that’s what the system allowed, you might make a mistake and get a fine or a sanction, but do the right thing, be an outstanding member of society again and all was forgiven. 
Who did he know from before his days at Landis?
Jim was scrolling his contact list when a message came through from Sarah
Fuck, that was not a conversation he wanted to have now.
He had his car read it
“What did you do????? I can’t be around you at the moment, I’m going to my parents until this blows over”
There no way Sarah would have known about the incident at Apex, but she would have been alerted by his change of Status and being named a Disruptive, you can’t hid something like that.
He dictated a text back “Don’t leave, we can sort this out, it’s only a temporary sanction, I’m sure Shane can help smooth it all over, let’s talk when I get back, I’m on my way home now”
Almost immediately there was a reply “THIS WON’T SMOOTH OVER”
Followed by a second text with a just a link.
Jim opened it on the flat panel console in his car, a video started playing. 
His blood ran cold as he realised is was a video of him at the Apex restaurant, drunk and insulting the wait staff in all his new Level 8 arrogance “…Fucking idiot, you’ve just spilled a thousand dollar glass of wine over a contract worth more money than you could even imagine, are you sorry about that…” Jim was waving the wine stained contract right on the waitresses face, the wet pages slapping her “See that, it’s a real job, nothing like you’ll ever get you fucking Troff”
The video paused on close-up of Jim’s face full of rage and righteous indignation and a voice over started in a heavily synthesised voice.
“This is how the so-called Elites treat the workers, sipping expensive wine whilst abusing honest hard working staff who just want to get do thier jobs. Nothing will stop them from belittling and degrading you, These Elite want nothing more holding you all down in the Outer forever. Never forget we outnumber them. We are the Grey”
Mercifully the screen went blank.
Fuck, Fuck, Fuck. If Jim was driving he’d have crashed the car by now.
He texted Sarah back “We can fix this”
The response, again, was instant “No WE can’t, I can’t be around a Disruptive, don’t call me again or I’ll get a restraining order”
Jim was floored, he and Sarah had worked so hard together as a team to climb the ladder. He knew she was super ambitious, but so was he and it was a good match. He didn’t think she’d drop him cold like this.

#
Jim’s EV was a picture of calm, sliding effortlessly through the light early afternoon traffic, leaving the glittering heart of the city with it’s mirrored towers and manicured gardens behind for the urban sprawl of the affluent suburbs of the what locals called the Green. 
No one would have known the turmoil inside.
Jim was slumped in the luxurious leather seat replaying the video of his outburst at Apex over and over. 
Who the hell are the Greys? He’d never heard of them, he tried think back to his time in the Outer after he’d left his parents comfortable, but unambitious, level 5 home to strike out on his own. 
Then it struck him like lightning bolt, he did recognise the name, it was on one of the restricted newscasts he was able to see after Shane’s guy chipped his TV. He’d have  see if he could look it up when he got home. 
All he could remember was they were some sort of loose group of agitators born out of the Level 3’s and 4’s in the Outer who were complaining about thier lot in life. All they had to do was work hard and climb the ladder instead of complaining the newscast commentator had said at the time.
Jim watched it again and again, but not one single piece of footage showed Rob on the other side of the table, it was if someone was filming over Rob’s shoulder, but how could they do that?
His phone pinged again with a message from his PCP
Seriously, what now? Jim thought as he opened the message.
“Dear Jim Dalton, you have been issued a number of warnings: 
(1) Serious Citizenship misconduct: Associating with a Banned Group
(2) Serious Citizenship misconduct: Common Assault
(3) Serious Citizenship misconduct: Drunk and disorderly in a public place
You are hereby summoned to a hearing at the District Citizenship Court, details will be forwarded directly to your lawyer on record.
Due to the serious nature of the offence, your Citizenship Status points have been suspended temporarily and you have been reallocated to Level 5 – Restricted citizen (Temporary) 
To view more details, login to your portal.”
Numb to the constant hits he’d received today Jim just shook his head in disgust. All the plans he’d been making and the effort he’d made step back from the brink were wasted, he was ruined and there was nothing he could do.
As the grim reality of his situation settled on Jim, his car alerted to an issue and gently pulled to the side of the road. 
All I want to do is get home and crawl up into a ball, I don’t need this.
He looked at the console to see what the issue was, a red flashing message was had replaced the slick top of the line interface
[This Vehicle has been disabled by central control.
The registered owner of this vehicle is not longer considered able to fulfil the payment schedule as required.
The financial institution has repossessed this vehicle and an appointed transportation service will arrived at this location to take possession of this vehicle]
The car door opened by itself, almost inviting Jim to leave it. 
Jim just started laughing uncontrollably, a laughter that was tinged with anger and despair at the same time.
He slowly got out of the car, why rush there was nothing left for him to loose.
He was still about 10 miles from his house, normally a 15 min drive, but on foot, he didn’t know.
With a sigh he patted the car a fond farewell and started walking.






CHAPTER 7

SANCTUARY (JIM 4)

Jim was walking, not something he was used to doing, for years he’d only commuted in air-conditioned cars, so walking the 10 or so miles to his house was proving to be harder than he thought.
Just like everything else today, this was not what he expected to be doing, forced to walk home in shame.
Honeslty Jim though, walking with his own thoughts was the best thing he could be doing right now.
Luckily he’d passed out of the city proper before he got kicked out of his car, no his any longer he reminded himself. The hustle and bustle of the city and the busy main roads had been replaced by the Green. It was a rich and verdant suburbia, row upon row of houses that shared the same handful of designers, alternating architectural styles for miles on end, all with small but neat and tidy front gardens that the owners could justifiably be proud of. 
The Green stretched for miles and surrounded the city’s centre like a verdant suburban moat. It was where the bulk of the population lived, Level 6’s and 7’s and for most it was more than enough.
For Jim, now on foot forced to take the time to look at these houses instead of ignoring them as they sped by out the window, it was never enough, his ambition had burned brightly to reach the very top. He had too, if for only a week, then it had all been ripped away from him.
Getting drunk and being rude to wait staff did not justify the sanctions he faced, not even close. He couldn’t help but feel a heavy hand pushing the scales down against him.
He’d taken off his coat and tie and rolled up his sleeves, the afternoon sun was too warm to be out walking, even more so in his expensive tailored suit. The sweat starting to soak his brand new crisp white real cotton shirt, his face flushed and red from the unexpected effort.
The quiet of the walk let Jim think properly for the first time. He had so many questions. 
Who had recorded the footage? He thought Shane’s points lawyer had smoothed it all over, apparently not. What was going on with Shane’s number he wondered, he’d tried calling a few more time with the same message.
Why did the Grey choose him to ruin today? He wasn’t even sure who they were, but they’d taken situation he could handle and blown it up to ruin Jim’s life. 
 Jim was forming another plan as he walked, one way or the other, he was going to find out who did this too him.
He checked his watch, it had been about two hours so far, he reckoned he had about an hour of walking to go before he got home. His once new suit was damp with sweat, thankfully the evening was on it’s way and the sun’s heat was dropping to be replaced by a cooling breeze.
Jim remebered he’d switched his phone to do not disturb when he started walking, he just couldn’t handle any more messages. He took it out of pocket and switched it back, here’s goes nothing he thought with apprehension.
Messages flooded in, five, ten and then twenty and more, text and voice. Finally it stopped and Jim nervously scanned them,searching for anything from Sarah, but there was nothing. Mercifully there was also nothing from his PCP.
There rest were all unknown numbers, cautiously he opened the first one and listened to it
“Hello Jim, can I call you Jim? it Brad here from The Daily Outlet, I just wanted to talk to you about the video of you at Apex, call me back”
Then the next one “Mr Dalton is Sophie here from the News at 7, we’ve got some questions about your association with the Greys, can you tell us how long you’ve been a member? Call me back urgently”
Another one “Hi Jim, it’s Steve here from Citadel News Feed, we’ve love to let you put your side of the story, w’ll give you a whole hour. Please call me back before you call anyone else”
Fuck, Jim’s simply hadn’t anticipated becoming a national news story.
He read some of the texts, all the same, urgent demands for him to call back one media outlet after another.
He recognised a text from his sports club, he knew what it was going to be before he even read it
“Mr Dalton, the board of the The Willow Creek Club and has decided to revoke your membership. Please arrange with the Club Secretary to come in and pick up your personal items.”
Jim had strived for years to get into the Club, it wasn’t a guarantee even when he was a Level 7, it took Jim and Sarah a few years before they’d done enough networking to even get a spot on the waiting list.
He understood now he’d been sudden shunted down to Level 5 he was being stripped of his membership, but it didn’t ease the blow of so much time and effort in getting his membership just being discarded in a two sentence text.
#
Jim continued walking, the well planned suburbia had been replaced by a neat and tidy small shopping village, the kind Jim and Sarah went to every weekend. It wasn’t one of the huge malls that dominated the closer you go to the Outer, this was just for the locals. 
He spotted a connivence store, Yes! he thought.
Jim had forgotten that he’d only had his morning coffee at home,, the sight of the shops and the convenience store instantly reminded him just how thirsty, and hungry he was. He didn’t need to be anywhere right now so a quick strop wouldn’t hurt him.
He was about 30 minutes away from his house and never came to this village so no chance anyone would recognise him. Jim tucked in his shirt, ran his fingers through his hair and tried to make himself as presentable as he could.
Jim walked in and immediately felt the welcome chill of the air-conditioning, he nodded to the cashier how proceeded to completely ignore him. The Convention store was tastefully sized, deliberately just big enough that you could get almost everything you needed without having to venture further afield to a big box supermarket. 
Jim went straight for the drink fridge at the back of the store, his thirst seemed to increase the closer he got. Force of habit had him reaching for a sparkling water, but he paused what was the point, today of all days, to be careful of his calory points tracker. He put back the water and moved over to the soft drink fridge, it had been a while since he’d had a guilt free soft drink. 
He was pondering the flavours when he spotted beer a few fridge doors over, Hell yes! Jim took one cold beer, stopped and took another, it wasn’t as if he had anything to loose today. 
There was TV playing music videos just above the row of fridges and he glanced at it “NEWS ALERT” flashed across the screen.
The new anchor spoke “Interrupting your scheduled programming with this breaking new alert as we follow the story of Jim Dalton, a former Level 8 executive now sanctioned down to Level 5 after the so-called Greys, a little known disruptive group who released the now viral footage of a drunken Dalton abusing and assaulting wait staff in an exclusive restaurant earlier this morning”
The news was showing the footage of Jim at the Apex restaurant in the background.
“We have Tanner Holt on the ground with a breaking update, Tanner what’s new information have you got for us”
Tanner is standing out on the street in front of what looks like Jim’s car “Thanks Lina, as you know we’ve been trying to track down the elusive Mr Dalton to ask him how he is associated with the groups the Greys, and does he have any comment on assaulting wait staff the the Apex restaurant. Mr Dalton looks to have gone to ground for now after leaving his old job at Landis Corpoartion earlier today.
Lina, just moment ago we were alerted by member of the public to this car sitting abandoned here on the side of the road about 10 miles down Trunk Road 4.”
The camera zooms in on Jim’s car, disable on the side of the road with the driver door still open.
Tanner picks up the story again “We’ve since confirmed that this car was registered to Mr Dalton up until only a few hours ago, in fact” He gestures to the man behind the camera “John, get a close-up of the console” 
John obliges and the sames message is flashing on it.
[This Vehicle has been disabled by central control.
The registered owner of this vehicle is not longer considered able to fulfil the payment schedule as required.
The financial institution has repossessed this vehicle and an appointed transportation service will arrived at this location to take possession of this vehicle]
Tanner is now offscreen and the camera stays on the message flashing in red and black on the screen “As you can see here Lina, the car was disabled and repossessed, and it looks like Dalton has just abandoned it here on the side of this busy road, Lina”
“Thanks Tanner, any sign of Mr Dalton?” 
Tanner back on camera and standing next to the open door to Jim’s car “No Lina, no sign of him here, we don’t know where he is at the moment. I’m told that both the Metro Police and the Citizenship Enforcement Bureau have active investigations open into Mr Dalton. Once source from the CEB assured me that Mr Dalton is not in any danger and they are monitoring his movements and will step in if necessary. Back to you Lina
Lina is sitting behind the news desk “This is just another worrying twist in the case of Jim Dalton, a corporate high flyer who who thought the rules didn’t apply to him, we hope he’s safe. Now over to Kira Maddox who is outside Jim Daltons home”
“Kira, any sign of Mr Dalton there?”
“Thanks Lina, I’m standing outside Mr Dalton’s luxury house in the exclusive suburb of Laurelton Park, as you can see behind me there is no sign of activity in the house at the moment, we don’t know of Mr Dalton will even come back here but we’ll be onsite to update if anything happens, back to you Lina”
“Thank you Kira, please do keep us posted. Now back your scheduled programming”
Jim was having what feels like an out of body experience, seeing his car that he was driving only a few hours ago, and his house splashed across the TV, the air-con was now too cold as he shivered with the though if his life being exposed for all to see.
Jim skulked his way to front counter having replaced the beers with a large sugary soft drink. The clerk continued to ignore Jim as he paid, Jim couldn’t get out of there quick enough.
There were at his house, what is he going to do now?
#
The darkness had set in now—cool and enveloping—and it suited Jim’s mood perfectly. He slowed his pace to allow the night to fall. Jim figured he would be less conspicuous walking through the tree-lined streets of the Green.
He silently thanked his ancestors for the total ban on drones. He knew from documentaries about life before the Reclamation that drones could have tracked you anywhere. He shuddered to think what his walk home would have been like with drones following him every step of the way.
The trees provided cover for Jim to sneak quietly up to his street. About 100 metres from his house, Jim cut into one of his neighbours’ front yards and crouched down behind their front hedge. He was able to see through the hedge and observe the circus that was outside the front of his house.
There had to be about fifteen media trucks parked up and down the street. Pop-up gazebos were spewed across the footpath in front of his house, each news outlet vying for the best view of his front yard.
Up here, where Jim was sitting quietly in the hedge, the street was mostly dark, lit by the regularly spaced streetlights, but they didn’t extend their light that far into the front yards under the tres.  
Jim was safe for now and just watched for a while as he considered his next move. Dozens of reporters, producers, and camera operators were milling around, chatting with each other. He could see the lights go on under one of the gazebos as the reporter went live to update their viewers.
The Metro Police had a single patrol car parked just up the street. They’d given over the prime spot to the media, and the two officers were sitting in the car, doing their best to ignore them.
“Damn it!” Jim thought. He’d hoped to avoid the police until he’d been able to find a lawyer willing to work with him. He needed to get home so he could access his personal terminal, where all his old contacts were stored.
Going up to the front door would not work. He could try to sneak around to the back door, but that would mean creeping through his neighbours’ backyards.
“Better than the front door,” Jim thought.  
Keeping low, he moved out of the hedges and towards the side of the house he was hiding in front of. He was four houses over from his own, so this was going to be a real test to get past not only the neighbours but also not tripping any security systems.
He didn’t know the people who lived in this house too well—maybe they’d spoken at a street BBQ once or twice—so he didn’t feel any guilt sneaking through their backyard. Jim slowly and very carefully opened the side gate to the house. He knew it would be open; no one locked their yards in this neighbourhood.
Staying low, he skirted under the windows on the side of the house. At least the curtains were drawn, but the lights were on, and he could hear people moving about and talking inside.
He got past the house and snuck all the way to the very back of the yard, where no light from the house cast any illumination. It was a welcome darkness.
Jim paused. He needed to keep calm and quiet, but his heart was pounding, and the adrenaline was coursing through his veins.  
After a few minutes sitting against the back fence, Jim’s hands had stopped shaking, and he felt ready to move.
“Only three more backyards to cross,” he told himself.
The next obstacle was the six-foot fence. As quickly and quietly as he could, Jim clambered over it and landed softly on the other side. He was fully exposed—the yard was just open lawn. He knew because the Grants’ kids loved soccer, so they’d turned the entirety of their lot into a field. He sprinted across the yard and almost hurdled the next boundary fence.
He could relax here. The Logans were away on holidays, and the house was dark and closed off.
He could see over to his yard—the blare of the bright lights of the media out front creating a surreal halo silhouetting his house.  
“Last one—let’s do this and get home,” Jim thought. He climbed over into the yard of his neighbour and close friend Elliot. The Reeces had moved in almost the same week as Jim and Sarah, and they’d struck up a tight friendship in the years since then.
He was ashamed to admit that he’d given Elliot a bit of a cold shoulder when Shane had taken Jim under his wing.
Jim softly lowered himself to the ground. He knew this backyard well, and he skirted around the back of the pool and the small cabana he’d helped Elliot build when a voice right next to his ear whispered, “Jim.”
Startled, Jim whipped around, ready for anything, to see Elliot lying quietly in the dark on the pool lounger in the cabana.
Elliot chuckled quietly. “You’re a bit jumpy, Jim—especially for someone sneaking through your friend’s backyard.”
Jim had no idea what to say. He blurted out, “It’s not what you think, Elliot…”
Elliot interrupted. “Let’s keep it quiet, Jim. Joanne is in the house with the kids—she thinks I’m out here making sure there were no reported trespassers.”
Jim relaxed a little. “Sorry, Elliot. I didn’t mean to sneak through your yard—it’s just that I wanted to avoid the circus out front.”
“Jim, I don’t care about that. Are you okay, man?” Elliot asked, concern in his voice.
Jim did not feel okay at all. “I’m good—just need to get home and start making some calls to sort all of this out.”
Elliot asked, “Yeah, what’s up with all that? Half the news thinks you’re some sort of rebel in league with the Greys; the other half thinks you’ve been abducted or something.”
Jim was anxious to get home. “I’m just a guy who’s getting screwed right now. None of it’s true—I just need to get home and start fixing it.”
Elliot said, “I get that. You know you can just stay here in the cabana—Joanne will never know; she doesn’t come out here much anyway. I’ve got some food and drink in the fridge—might be safer.”
After a day when everyone was dropping him like a hot stone, Jim was genuinely warmed to hear someone offer help, but he couldn’t risk Elliot’s status by hanging around.
“Thanks, Elliot—really, I mean it—but I’m not going to drag you into this. I’m not a good person to be around right now.”
Elliot shrugged and raised his glass to Jim. “Good luck to you—remember I’m here, buddy.”
Jim gave Elliot a nod and jumped the fence into his backyard.
#
Home finally! Jim was elated, never in his life had it been so hard to just go home. Yet here he was. 
He stood in the darkness of his yard, the low murmur of the media out front only just reaching him, the spotlight lights shining against the front of his house making it seem even darker in the backyard.
Jim, reached into pocket for his keys. They weren’t there.
Oh No he frantically patted down all of his pockets, but his keys were nowhere to be found. Had he left them in the car? Had he dropped them jumping over one of the fences?
He got down on his knees and scrabbled around where he landed to see if he’d only just dropped them. It was too dark to see anything, and after a short time Jim gave up scratching around in the garden. They were gone.
Jim was more annoyed that worried, it would have been too easy just to be able sneaking his back door, this day was really trying to test him. He knew he had a spare set of keys hidden by the side door. The side door felt a bit exposed, he really wanted to get inside without anyone knowing and keep it that way.
Just be careful Jim thought to himself as he tentatively looked around the corner to the side of the house. The picket fence and gate separating the front yard from the side of the house was a good six feet tall, but was only half timbered, so you could easily see through it. 
Jim carefully scanned his path to the side door and it seemed the media pack down by the footpath was at an ebb, no one was really looking in his direction. 
Carefully and slowly, Jim crept around the corner, sliding himself tight against the side of the house he crept the 15 or so meters to the side door. The key was under a pot just across from the door. From the indent of the side door he looked again at the media, no one was paying attention, he snuck over to the pot and knelt down behind it. The pot didn’t provide any cover really, it was only a foot tall and empty. 
Jim gently tilted it and felt under the pot, where was this key? His hand couldn’t find it so he tipped the pot further and bent over to look under.
There it was, stuck to the bottom of the pot with the dirt, it had been a while since he’d needed to use it. Jim grabbed for the key, the pot tipped over too far and he lost control of it. It clattered over and smashed into a dozen or so pieces.
No! The noise sounded deafening to Jim crouched on his knees in the quiet at the side of his house. Panicked he looked up and through the fence. It felt like the media turned as one to look towards the house, the low hum of mundane conversation of the bored media pack rose a pitch. Someone trained a spotlight to where the sound had come from. Jim could see the zebra petter of light and shadow on the ground and him.
He held deathly still, perhaps they couldn’t see him.
A voice yelled out “There’s someone there!” 
Shit, it was a that moment he realised he didn’t have the key in his hand, it was somewhere under the debris of the broken pot and the soil that it held now spread over the side path.
cameramen and reporters were now in a mad dash to his side gate with reporters and camera operators elbowing each other out of the way to get the best shots.
Jim was frantically pushing the broken pieces of terracotta around trying to find the key, he cut his hand on one of the shards and started adding his own blood to the soil.
The first camera man got to the gate stopped to leaned his camera over it and get the shot, but the gate opened and he fell into onto the path directly in front of Jim. Now the gate was open, the pack rushed in with not regard for Jim or the cameraman on the ground.
Jim was light up be a dozen camera mounted lights and the reporters were screaming questions at him at the same time
“Mr Dalton are you a member of the Greys?’
“Mr Dalton why did you assault the waitress?”
“Are you a danger to society”
“What’s it like being designated a disruptive Person?”
Jim’s hand found the key finally and he stood up, his pants covered in mud and dirt, his had red with blood, he eyes squinting starting into the lights.
The throng had surrounded him and were jostling him like he was in a washing machine, he had no choice but to push through them to get to the side door if his house.
Jim pushed but they didn’t move, he pushed again but they were shoulder to should in the tight space.
Jim yelled at them “Get out of my way, get off my property!” and pushed through again. He was hit in the face by one microphone, then another .
A cameraman had backed up into the doorway and Jim yelled again “Move!”
He didn’t.
Jim needed to get inside.
He grabbed cameraman and shoved him are hard as he could off the small stoop of the side door. The man went sprawling into the narrow garden between the side path and the house. His camera flew off onto the pathway smashing into pieces, all the other camera’s capturing the moment the man and the camera hit the ground.
Jim didn’t have time to see any of that, he showed the key into the lock and burst into house slamming the door shut behind him with a force that rattled the windows.
Jim collapsed onto the floor exhausted, he was spent, he didn’t even register the banging on the door as the adrenalin left his body and he passed out lying there on the cold floor in his dark house.




















CHAPTER 8

ESCAPE (JIM 5)

Jim woke up lying face down on the cold dark floor. For a moment he didn’t know where he was, then the realisation of what just happened and the memories of the last twelve or so hours smashed back into his mind with a heavy thud, a shiver racked his body as he lay on the floor.
Then the realisation hit him, he was home!
Jim rolled over on to his back and looked around, he’d ended up on the kitchen floor when he burst in the side door, his face was numb from lying on the cold tiles.
How long had he been there? He checked his watch: just over an hour.
Jim looked at his hands, they were covered in dirt and blood, he picked up more than one cut scrabbling through the broken pot for the keys.
He gingerly got up and went over to the kitchen sink to wash his hands. From the sink he could see through the curtains of the kitchen window to the side of house. The media throng had left, but they’ve left behind trampled bushes and flower beds in the side garden, the path strewn with soil and broken plants and pots. At least someone had closed the gate.
He quietly walked out of the kitchen to the main hell and slowly up to the front door, his curiosity getting the better of him, he needed to see what was going on outside.
Jim peered through the curtains on the door, silently thanking Sarah for spending so much money to make sure no window was left unfurnished. He was actually proud of the work they’d done together in creating such a pleasing interior. It was thier house, but also a prop to host all those networking lunches and dinner parties. The fact the light of the media pack on his front lawn was mostly blocked by the curtains was a blessing.
He could see that at some point the police has set up a line across his front lawn to keep the reporters back on the footpath. There were least twice as many media vans out there now along with what looked like a sizable crowd of onlookers. He was sure his dramatic arrival back home made it even more of a story.
Checking the door was securely locked, he quietly went to the back of house where there was no chance of being seen. He flopped onto the couch in the family room that over looked the backyard and flicked on the TV.
The news was all about him. 
A news anchor was recapping the news and teasing the full bulletin “Former Landis Copration executive who’s verbal abuse and assault of staff at the Apex restaurant was sensationally outed by the anti-establishment group the Grey, was involved in a violent scuffle with reporters at his house earlier this evening. Our full report and the shocking footage in our bulletin at 9pm”
He flicked around channels, they all had the same tease, he didn’t want see it. 
Jim turned the TV off and threw the remote on the couch in disgust. He needed a shower to wash it all off.
Fifteen minutes later Jim had showered and changed, for the first time in what seemed forever, he felt comfortable. Time in the familiar safety of his own house, even besieged as it was by the media, had helped him to think more clearly.
Clean and comfortable he realised he was ravenous and headed for the kitchen to rummage up some food. 
He distracted himself from the weight of all his problems by making a gourmet sandwich, fresh toasted artisan bread, slathered with salted butter, some sliced real turkey and a perfectly ripe soft cheese. Normally he wouldn’t be so extravagant with all the fillings piled high, but this beautiful food, bought just a few days ago as a Level 8 VP at Nova Corp, was going to be his last luxury grocery shop for a long while, so there was absolutely no point waisting it.
He sat back down on the couch with his and thumbed on the TV. He didn’t want to see himself again so he browsed the sports channels to see if there was anything there that could take his mind of his situation. The food and the couch conspired quickly to send him off to sleep, this time he drifted off feeling relaxed and safe.
#
Jim was jolted awake by his phone ringing insistently. He wasn’t sure if it had rung out once or twice. It didn’t matter, he was in no mood to answer it as he lay on the couch groggy and bleary eyed. He let the call ring out again and go to message bank. 
It rang again, immediately. He scrabbled for the phone next to him on the couch and looked to see who was calling – unknown number.
Just another reporter trying to get a scoop Jim thought as he pressed the reject button. He flipped through the phone and saw the same number had called 5 times already, one call after another almost immediately. 
Jim only had time to register this fact when the number called again, he needed to tell whoever it was to stop calling.
“Hello, who is this this? You need to stop calling” Jim said angrily.
The voice was distant and didn’t sound real ”You need to leave your house now”
“Who is this? look I’m not interested in anything you’ve got to offer”
The voice was louder and more insistent “Mr Dalton you may not know us, but we have your best interests at heart, you need to leave your house now”
Jim was baffled by the conversation said “What are you talking about. I’m not going anywhere”
“Turn on the news, you’ve got 5 minutes” The line went dead.
Jim was shook his head, what the fuck was that?
Reflexively he turned on the news the bulletin was well under way, the anchor in the studio was just wrapping up an interview a man sitting in the back of an ambulance.
“….thanks Stephen, I’m glad you’re ok” She looked directly at the camera and continued “That was our Channel 7 Camera man who was earlier this evening assaulted by ex Level 7 executive turned Disruptive Person, Jim Dalton.
Mr Dalton has also caused over 15,000 credits of damage to our news camera.”
She paused listening to something in her ear. “I’m being told by my producers that the network will be pressing charges against Mr Dalton and we’re expecting his arrest imminently”
Jim, jumped up off the couch
NO! He coudn’t go to jail, that would be the end, there was no coming back from that.
Jim was panicking now, the voice on the other end of the phone had been right, he needed to leave, he couldn’t be arrested.
The adrenaline hit brain and the room blurred slightly as he fought to control himself.
Think! he yelled at himself, What did he need? in the back of his mind he knew once he’d left his house he was never coming back.
Money, he needed money. Jim bolted to his office at the front of the house.
Like the rest of the house it was a tastefully decorated prop, guests glancing in would see the dark wood desk sitting in front of custom built in bookcases decorated with books and souvenirs from thier travels and think just how well ready and travelled Jim and Sarah were. Of course it was all Sarahs’ work, Jim had little input when they furnished the office. 
He rushed to the desk and slammed open the top drawer so hard it came clean out of the desk and clattered to the floor it’s contents spilling over the ground. Jim flipped the drawer over and taped to the underside were two small grey items, they looked a lot like a memory sticks from the old days. 
Jim grabbed them and thanked his lucky stars Sarah hadn’t found them and also that he’d kept them all these years.
Jim had grown up in the Outer in a Level 5 household, so he learnt you always had a back-up plan. The sticks were the last inheritance of his parents, two untraceable caches of credits, the sum total of all thier assets in two tiny devices. He’d keep them out of sentimentality more than anything else.
He could see the blue and red flashing lights of the Metro Police bleeding around the edge of the curtains in his office, they must just have pulled up. 
He had to go.
His run to the back door was punctuated by trying to thrust on his runners at the same time. He stopped for a second out of habit looking for the remote to turn off the TV.
The footage of the TV sent a chill down his spine, the voiceover was breathless with anticipation “… as you can see here the Metro Police have arrived in numbers ready to take Jim Dalton into custody” the news coverage showed about a dozen Metro Police officers getting out of thier patrol cars and waving an armoured car through to Jim’s driveway “You can see here the Police are not taking any chances, they don’t know the extend of Daltons’ involvement in the Greys so they are taking every precaution. I’m also being told by a source that they are confident Dalton is still in the house…”
Jim looked at his phone laying next to the remote control, he turned on his heel slipped out his back door.
He immediately bolted to the fence he jumped over hours earlier and leap over into his neighbours backyard. Thankfully Elliot was back inside, the cabana was closed off an quiet, the backyard lights out, he did not want the one person who’d hadn’t shunned him today to get caught up in this.
Jim sprinted across the darkened yard and leapt over the fence to the Logans, the his next neighbour over. He dropped to the ground and he could hear the Police going around the side of his house one yard over, they weren’t trying to be quiet their radios updating thier movements.
He strained to hear what they were saying “Team two is at the rear door, no sign of the suspect, signs of life inside, lights and TV. Holding” a deep voice said in a clipped tone into a radio just loud enough to carry to Jim’s ears.
Jim sat his back against the fence catching his breath for a moment, he had to keep moving and put some distance between him and his house. With purpose he got up and started to more carefully climb over the next fence when a loud voice pierced the night. “Mr Dalton, this is the Metro Police, we have a warrant for your arrest, please come out peacefully”
Damn it! The lights went on in the yard he was just about to jump into, as did the lights in all the houses around him.
He Froze waiting for the light to come on where he was, then he remembered the Grants were away and the yard remained dark.
He was safe for a moment, but he was in a little oasis of darkness in a neighbourhood that was rapidly waking up.
The voice yelled again “Mr Dalton, this is the Metro Police, we have a warrant for your arrest, please come out peacefully, you have 5 minutes to comply” It had to be amplified by the armoured truck.
He was stuck, every house around him was fully awake now.
Then it hit him, the Grants were away and he knew how to get into thier house.
#
Jim remembered a conversation with his neighbour at a BBQ at this house a few months ago. Jason, the owner of the house was complaining about his basement window being ruined by the new sprinkler system he’d just installed. It had warped the frame and he couldn’t shut it properly. He even shown the guys at the BBQ the window.
Jim found it being a small shrub growing up against the back wall, he knelt down and gave it a quick shove and it popped open just like Jason had demonstrated. 
Jim squeezed himself though the small window and dropped to the floor of the basement below with a thud. 
It was pitch black in the basement as he stood and let his eyes become accustomed to the dark. Outside he could hear the loudspeaker again “Mr Dalton we are authorised to enter your house with force, this is you last change to surrender peacefully”
Good Jim thought, they still though he was inside as he gently pulled the window closed jamming it shut into the warped frame.
Luckily houses on this street didn’t alter thier floor plans much being all built by the same developer and Jim was able to feel his way through the basement to the stairs going up to the ground floor. 
He got to the landing at the top of the stairs and stopped cold when he saw the alarm keypad flashing red – active. 
Jim had no idea of the Grant’s alarm code, and he turned around and went back down the stairs deflated, he was stuck down here. The breakers to the house were outside, but that was too dangerous to get to right now with the neighbourhood wide awake and crawling with police and media.
He’d been in this basement before, so he knew there was a tool bench over by the hot water system. Jim carefully felt his way around the basement in the near complete darkness. He almost fell over a suitcase and whacked his head on a low hanging bulkhead that left him seeing stars for a minute, but his hands eventually found the tool banch. 
Carefully he felt around the bench, Yes! he felt a flash light sitting in it’s charger, he snatched it flick the flight on, immediately the stark white light of the LED flashlight illuminated the basement. He scanned the space, standing next to the work bench the room was familiar, the same layout as his own house, but also completely different. 
The owners here had made it more usable than the mostly empty dark space in his own house, his eye settled on the couch, small TV and bar fridge in one corner, apparently Jason spent a bit of time down here.
Jim moved over and opened up the small fridge, inside cool and tempting were some different flavoured soft drinks and a few beers. Jim wondered if Wendy new about the stash of soft drinks and beer? 
He grabbed a soft drink and slumped on the couch, the cool sweet drink quenched his thirst with a stratifying fizzy tingle.
He pick up the remote off to top of the fridge and turned on the small TV mounted on the wall opposite. The room was bathed in a soft multi coloured light and Jim flicked off the flashlight.
The news was on every channel, apparently the appetite for Jim’s downfall hadn’t abated yet, live pictures of the front of his house were splashed across every channel.
 He stopped on one “.. as you can see by the footage here the Metro Police have now been joined by the Citizenship Enforcement Bureau as the operation here goes from arrest to investigation”
The anchor starts talking to a reporter standing in front of Jim house “Over to Tanner Holt who’s been covering this story from the beginning. Tanner what’s the situation there?”
Tanner on the live cross responds “Thanks Lina, about 30 minutes ago Metro Police executed an arrest and search warrant at Jim Dalton’s house here in the affluent suburb of Laurelton Park. Dalton was seen entering his house a few hours earlier and in the result melee assaulted a Channel 7 cameraman and destroyed his camera. When Metro Police entered the house Dalton had already left. Police are tight lipped as to when and how he escaped unnoticed and where he might be at this present time. Metro Police have started a city wide manhunt for Dalton and have warned citizens not to approach him as he could become violent again. Back to you in the studio Lina”
Lina sitting at the news desk “A worrying update indeed, it seems we now have a violent fugitive on the loose in the city, stay safe out there”
Jim sank further into the couch, what was he going to do now? he had to find a way to clear his name.
Jim was shocked out of his thoughts by banging on the front door upstairs “Metro Police, please come to the door”
The Police were here, how did they know where he was?
More banging, louder and more insistent. They couldn’t know, he’d left his phone on the couch.
He switch off the TV and snuck to the basement window to check it was still jammed shut, just as light and voices came into the back yard.
“Neighbours told us no one was home, apparently they’re away on a holiday” said one voice.
“Lucky them, and here we are jumping thier fence to find a fugitive, I know where I’d rather be!” said another voice.
The first voice responded “ There’s nothing here, the house is locked up good an tight, lets move on this neighbourhood isn’t going to question itself”
With that the lights and voice moved away.
Jim’s heart was beating through his chest, but at least they’d confirmed they didn’t know where he was, he’d have to sit tight here whilst the heat died down.

#
Jim woke with a start, he hadn’t even realised he went to sleep on the old couch. It was still dark outside so he couldn’t have been asleep more than a few hours. He sat up feeling a bit groggy, a bit like he had a hangover from the constant shocks and adrenaline dumps of the day before.
At least he’d been safe here for the night, and the couch wasn’t too bad and there’d been no more close encounters with the police or media.
Grabbing another soft drink out of the fridge, Jim randomly thought it was interesting he just wasn’t hungry considered he’d barely had anything to eat yesterday. The cool sugary drink woke him up pleasantly.
He couldn’t stay here though.
He flicked on the TV curious to see what new label they had slapped on him whilst he slept. A different anchor was sitting at the desk, the clock on the screen was showing 5:37am “…nothing new overnight in the case of Jim Dalton, Police are casting a city-wide net this morning…” they were playing image of his house with a much smaller police presence on the screen.
Jim turned it off, the dawn was just breaking, it was now or never.
He need to get the alarm off first, the breaker box was outside at the side of the house. Carefully plying the basement window open Jim climbed out into the frigid pre-dawn air and snuck low and quietly around to the side of the house. 
The box was pretty standard and like everyone else wasn’t locked, there was no need in this neighbourhood. He gently opened it, still door squeaked loudly in the cold silence. He looked around and waited a few breathless moments to see if the noise had attracted any attention, deciding to just get on with it he turned on the flashlight for a second to identify the master switch. 
Jim paused, if this alarm was anything like his cutting off the power would alert the security company to come and inspect the property, he’s have anywhere from 30 minutes to a couple of hours depending where the nearest patrol was. Once he flipped the switch he’d had to move fast.
Jim takes a breath, thinks through his plan one last time and flips the main circuit breaker off. He moves fast back to the basement window and squeezes back through quickly, he’s had some practice now.
He rushed us the basement stairs the check the alarm keypad, it’s dark, no red flashing light, he hopes there is a battery back up somewhere.
Tentatively he opens the door and steps out into the main hallway running up the centre of the house from the from door to the back door. He stands still searching the ceiling. There! he finds the closest alarm sensors across the hall in the kitchen.
Jim, never taking his eye off the sensor walked into the kitchen, the sensor remained dead, no lights flickered. He takes a deep breath of relief, not realising he’d been holding his breath since he step out of the basement. 
The alarm was dead but his didn’t have much time to waste, Where did they keep the car keys?
Jim opened all the kitchen drawers, nothing. He darted across to the study and opened all the desk drawers, nothing either. He tried the drawers on the bookcase behind the desk, the middle one was locked. 
He went back over to the kitchen and grabbed a big carving knife and used it pry open the drawer, splintering the wood as he did so. 
Yes! the car keys.
He can leave now, hopefully no one will notice the car leaving so early in the morning and as the Grant’s are away for at least another week, the car won’t be reported as missing for a while, long enough to give Jim a chance to find a solution.
Jim passes by the kitchen on the way to the garage, he stops and goes back and pilferers some muesli bars and biscuits from the pantry and a big water bottle from the fridge.
Does he need anything else? No he needed to get going.
Jim opened the garage door to see the Grant’s white EV sitting in it, in a dark part of his mind he was half expecting the garage to be empty. Thankfully it wasn’t and the car came alive as the keys came within proximity. The lights turned on, the panel in the interior started up and the drivers door opened. 
The garage door stayed steadfastly closed “Damn it” he’d turned the power off and forgotten about the door. 
He couldn’t go back and turn the power on to open the door, all the sensors would trip and set the alarm off. Jim had no choice but to muscle the door open manually. 
Straining against the inactive motor Jim forced the door up, it took what felt like ages and Jim was sweating by the time the door was up enough to drive the car out. 
Feeling exposed at the entrance to the grager with the light of dawn strengthening by the minute, Jim jumped into the car and drove out.
He was distracted adjusting the seat when the car stopped dead. Jim looked up and standing in front of the car Elliot his neighbour, he was rugged up against the chill morning with his dog max straining on the leash to keep walking.
Elliot looked directly at Jim, visibly shocked at first and then realising what Jim was doing, a wry smile came onto his face. He step back off the driveway and dramatically waved Jim through.
Jim drove past Elliot and out onto the street mouthing the word  “Thanks” through the window. Elliot just gave Jim a mock salute.
The car slid silently out into the street as Jim turned down away from him house, he could see the Police and the media camped out just two doors down, but no one gave the white EV a second glance. His last view before he turned off his street, perhaps for the last time ever, was Elliot standing there chuckling to himself.










CHAPTER 9

CONSEQUENCES (NEIL 3)

It has been a few weeks now since Neil left prison, weeks where he’d just done as he was told, gone where he was told, and followed every rule he’d been given. Partially out of habit, partially because Neil didn’t want to stand out as someone who would create waves.
That had to change today though, what was the point of serving his full sentence only to come out and live almost exactly the same way, rules and curfews, his life was still in a prison, just one with larger boundaries.
He’d been planning his next move ever since he was released. He’d stayed quiet, listened and observed how things worked out here for Level 3’s and he was ready to do something.
Neil had just stepped off the bus from his job in the Rust Belt, the sun had long gone down. Unlike every other night, Neil didn’t immediately go up to his small apartment in the halfway house, tonight he turned away from his building and walked across the street to the brightly lit twenty-four hours supermarket. 
He had no need to go there, he’d stocked up on what he could afford a few days ago, he just needed it to look like he wasn’t going straight to his room for a reason.
Neil browsed the aisles in the shop for a few minutes, pausing every now and then to look out the windows across to his apartment building. Soon enough he could see that there was no one left hanging around after the bus had left, his fellow half-way house residents had all gone inside and no one had followed him into the shop.
He looked at his watch, he had about two hours before curfew so he’d had to move fast. Neil causally moved to the back of the store all the while making sure the cashier was still completely absorbed by his device at the front counter and ignoring the world him.
Quickly he ducked through the entrance to the warehouse in the back, it was just one of those plastic strip barriers, so apart from the muted rustle of the strips, Neil didn’t make a sound. He had figured at this time of night the back of the store would be empty. 
Neil stopped suddenly, the back office wasn’t empty. Inside the small room the Manager was doing some sort of accounting on her terminal, Neil could see the screen and was familiar enough to recognise the kind of program she was using. It brought back a wave of nostalgia, he used to stay late to tidying up the accounts years ago when he owned his construction business.
The door was wide open and he need to cross it to get the the staff exit, he held his breath and watch from the shadows. She was absorbed in her work, so he just took the plunge and darted past the open door as quickly and quietly as he could.
He didn’t stop and went straight to the staff exit, opening the door and getting outside as fast as he could. He pressed his hand against the door to slow its close to a faint click. 
So far so good, Neil thought, no alarms had gone off and no one had seen him. He stood for a moment in the doorway his heart pounding loudly in his chest. 
Keep moving he told himself as he stepped away from the door and into the laneway behind the building. The laneway connected all the shops and offices rear entrances and was dark and quiet at this time of night. Neil dodged the industrial waste bins in the laneway and came out onto the street around the corner from his half-way house where no one could see him.
He knew there was public bus stop just a few blocks over and as he set out for it he checked his watch again, 1 hour and 45 minutes before curfew, he’d be cutting it fine.
#
Neil turned off his phone before he got to the bus stop, he wasn’t sure if it would help or not, but he wasn’t taking any chances. 
He desperately wanted to see his family again, even despite being told they had decide to sever all contact with him more than five years ago. If he was able to just see then from a distance to know they were ok, to see how much his daughter had grown, to have any kind of connection, he could endure his time in the Rust Belt working his way back up to be in thier life again.
There was no direct bus from the Outer to the Green, he have to change busses at the terminal hub which was on the loose border between the two zones. There were no check point or gates, but over the space of a dozen miles or so, the drab dirty grey of the Outer slowly turned over to the verdant green of the affluent suburbs where Neil used to live a lifetime ago.
He’d worked out that he had about ten minutes on the ground at his house, not much time, but enough. He couldn’t afford to miss the busses back.
Neil sat on the bus to the Hub going over in his mind what his wife and daughter would look like now? 
Neil accepted he’d probably only get a glimpse of them inside the house from the outside, but he was seriously toying with just knocking on the door and to hell with the consequences, it would be worth it.
The bus stopped at the hub and Neil stepped off with a resolve to speak to his family one way or the other. 
He waited a few minutes for the next bus to his old suburb, standing against the wall away from the cameras trying to be as unnoticeable as possible.
It only took another fifteen minutes to get to his old street, checking his watch again he had less than ten minutes before the bus swung by the stop on the way back to the hub.
He only had about five houses to walk, each step felt heavy and his house seems miles away. After what felt like an eternity he was standing on the footpath outside his old house. 
All his plans just disappeared, staring silently at the house he built,the home where his family grew from just his wife and himself to include his daughter. All the memories they’d made together in this house came flooding back, and then realisation of all of the memories he’d missed over the last five years made him equally sad and angry.
Who were these people who had taken his life and torn it all apart? 
He would find out.
The garage door of the house sprung to life, the panels starting to tilt up into the ceiling at the same time as the lights in the garage came on.
It was at this point Neil realised he’d just been standing on the street and staring at his house. 
Shit, how long had he been standing there? He panicked and sprinted away to hide behind a tree just down the street. A car was pulling into the driveway
Neils’ heart was in his mouth, was that his wife?
No, it was man. Before Neil even had time to think a woman stepped out of the passenger side and a young boy, not more than seven or eight burst out of the rear door and sprinted into the garage to disappear inside. The man and woman almost in unison admonished the boy, but he was long gone.
They followed the boy inside through the garage door and it smoothly closed behind them, eventually the lights in the garage went out and the front of the house fell silent.
Neil hadn’t considered that his family might not be there, they’d owned the house outright before he went into prison. His dreams of a reunion were dashed and he felt the weight being alone heavy on his shoulders as he turned around and deliberately walked away from his old life. 
He had to run the catch the bus, the trip back to his now home was a blur of bitter disappointment.
#
For everyone else it was just another day, for Neil it was the first day he really felt there was nothing to work towards. His family had disappeared from the house they’d built together and he was stuck out here the Outer in a half-way house working six days a week racking up debt that he had no hope of paying off. 
He’d made it back the night before with about a minute to spare before the curfew, at least that had gone to plan. Neil spent most of the night tossing and turning thinking over just what he was going to do now, he had no idea what time he’d eventually fallen asleep. It was a violent shock to be woken with banging on his apartment door.
Almost falling out of his bed he stumbled top the door and open it to see Grant standing there. Groggily Neils asked “What time is it, did I miss the bus?” a wave of dread spreading over his body, missing the bus was bad.
Grant, ignoring Neil’s question “My office in ten minutes” he turned and walked away from Neil’s door leaving Neil standing in his open door barely awake and very confused.
Nine minutes later Neil was downstairs sitting in Grant’s office still, now that he was awake he was sure this was about his excursion last night, he didn’t think anyone had recognised him.
Dispensing with any small talk Grant spoke “Neil, do you want to tell me about last night?
Yep, he was right. Neil had leant in prison not to admit to anything, just in case those accusing didn’t know all the facts. 
He answered calmly “I don’t know, I went for a walk, I got back before curfew so not sure why there’s a problem?”
Grant, moving from annoyed to visibly frustrated said “Don’t bullshit me Neil, tell me why I got a notice this morning not only from the local metro Police, but also from the fucking Citizenship Enforcement Bureau?”
Shit! “I’m sure you’re going to tell me” Neil said defiantly.
“Damn right I will, not only did you leave the local jurisdiction area, you’re curfew area, but you also went all the way to the Green to stand outside your old house!” Grant was on a roll and Neil wasn’t in any place to interrupt him.
“ You’re just lucky these were only location warnings, if your family had still been there and you’d made contact, they would have hauled you back into jail on the spot. What part of you’re a Probationary Citizen and not actually free to do what you want don’t you understand?”
Neil was getting angry himself “Fuck you and fuck the whole system, it’s like I never left prison, who the fuck is anyone to tell me I can’t go and see my wife and child”
Grant looked like his head was going to burst “Neil, check your attitude right fucking now! You’re just lucky your family had left years ago and you didn’t exceed the penalty threshold or you’d be sitting in prison right now. As it you’re one minor penalty away from going back anyway”
The room fell silent as Grant’s words resonated with Neil, he was not going back prison.
Grant softened his tone “Look you’ve only been out for a couple of weeks, this is not the kind attention you need. Your family is completely off limits until you get back up to Level 6, and you need accept that.
Neil was silent.
Grant continued “Neil, I’m trying to advise you here, but I can’t if you’re pushing back, fighting the system isn’t going to get you anywhere except stuck in forever as permanent restricted citizen.”
Neil was calmly taking Grant’s words in, beneath the facade he was seething. He could see it know, they were trying to hold him back as a virtual slave forever, how many countless others had sat in chairs like this he wondered.
Grant, seeing that Neil seemed to be listening ended their meeting “Ok, good, message delivered, I don’t want to be here again Neil, you better make a move to catch your bus”
Neil got up and left the office without a word.

#
The next few weeks were different for Neil, he simply did as he was told, never offering another word of defiance. Outwardly he played the role of the chastened man, acknowledging his error and working to be the prefect citizen again. 
Work, sleep, work, sleep, his routine was like clockwork, never straying from the bounds of the office or his apartment building and the convenience store.
Grant still kept a close eye on him, but Neil gave him no cause for alarm. 
All the while Neil was waiting.
This morning he got on the bus with plenty of time to spare as he had every morning since his warning. He scanned the occupied seats looking to see if he recognised anyone on the bus. 
There! About halfway up the bus with an empty seat next to him he found who he was looking for. Purposely he made his was into the bus and sat down in the empty seat next to the person he’d spotted
“Good morning Neil, I haven’t seen you in a while” the man said.
Neil responded in cautious tone “Morning Rook, it’s been a while since you’ve been on my bus”
 Rook nodded “I get around, as it happens I’ve got some work to do in your direction”
With that short exchange they both settled in for the trip the Rust Belt whilst the rest of the passengers took their seats and said thier Hello’s to friends and colleagues.
After a while Rook addressed Neil “ So Neil, how’s life on the outside treating you?”
Neil, nervous knew this was important “No as well as I would have hoped, in fact if I’m being honest pretty shitty actually”
Rook gave a short laugh “No.. it never lives up to the hype, more of the same out here as you have back inside”
Neil was pretty sure he was saying the right things, but he didn’t want to blow it said “Some days I don’t see the point, I can’t really see a way out”
Rook studies Neil for a few moments “It can feel like that, but you’ve only been out for a short time so let some time pass, mind your own business and you’ll find a way.”
He’d blown it, after weeks of waiting to find Rook, he laid it on too thick.
Deflated Neil mumbled “yep.. I expect you’re right, I’ve got all the time in the world now”
Rook nodded, apparently done with the conversation, looked out the window at the grey city sliding past. Neil just sat there staring at the back of the seat in front of him.
After a few minutes, without turning back to look at Neil, Rook said “Of course, you might just be feeling down because you don’t have any friends, did you consider that?”
Startled out of his funk, Neil looked at Rook, this was it “You’re right, I don’t have any friends out here, I think I’d like to start making some”
Rook turned to look at Neil, his eyes bore into Neil’s, but Neil didn’t shy away “Smartest thing you’ve said since I’ve met you Neil, perhaps there’s some hope for you yet” Rook smiled and broke his gaze with Neil.
The pressure of that stare was enough to unnerve Neil, but he needed to push forward. “So.. got any suggestions where I’d start?”
Rook shook his head and passed him a folded note “For when you get off the bus, make sure you shred it properly”
Not another word was spoken for the rest of the trip. Neil pondered the note, it was burning a hole in his pocket, he was desperate to know what was on it.
Finally, the bus arrived at his stop and Neil and most of the passengers got off. Rook didn’t move, just nodded his farewell.
Neil jumped off the bus and once he’d cleared the throng of workers at the bus stop he opened the note and read it: 
352 Langston Street 7pm, leave the phone in the apt.
It was hand written, Rook clearly had it ready for Jim, did he find Rook or did Rook find him Neil wondered.
He didn’t know the street, but he’d be able to look it up on one of the work terminals, he wasn’t going to miss this meeting, it might be his only change to get out of here.
#
Neil struggled to concentrate on his work during the day, thankfully it was mindless work, just organising, collating and filing plans and project schedules for various construction projects. 
All he could think about was the meeting Rook had set up, luckily he was able to do map and property searches from his work terminal and dig deeper into the location he’d been given.
It was only a few blocks away from his halfway house, maybe a five minute walk. It looked like an unassuming small office building, 10 or so small office, very similar to the one he rented for his own company back in the day. According to planning record is was registered to a nameless shell company that Neil couldn’t get any information on. 
What he really wanted to know was how to get out if things went bad in the meeting, so he tapped into the public works database and found the building plans. A simple generic small office building design, built about forty or so years ago when they tried, but ultimately failed, to gentrify the area. Not tall enough for lifts at three stories, there was a main set of stairs at the front, but more importantly a rear set of emergency stairs accessed through the back of each for the office. Neil filed that fact away for use if needed and checked out of the records portal quickly so his footprint was not noticed.
 A few hours later Neil had just arrived back at his apartment, he tried to act as nonchalant as possible on the bus ride back from work, like nothing was going on, just a regular boring day. Though he was sure he was giving himself away every time he moved, everything felt too forced and unnatural.
Neil had a bit of time to think about what he was going to do before he stepped into the unknown. He was sitting quietly in his small and sparsely furnished one bedroom apartment. Neil looked around and he couldn’t see any evidence that he actually lived there, no pictures or keepsakes, nothing that would let someone know Neil Lucas, formerly a business owner and a Level 7 citizen with a wife and daughter even existed. 
After his run in with Grant, he’d viewed the world differently, more cynically, it was like a shroud had been lifted. Everywhere he looked he could see the apparatus of the system holding him, and countless others, back. He’d climbed the ladder and built his life around the system, agreeing with the rules and working them to his benefit as much as he could, he never once never questioned it. He bought the story that the Citizenship points system was the best way to rebuild a fair and just society after the Great Reclamation. 
He’d never taken much notice of the lower levels, blindly assuming their life in the lower levels was thier own fault from lack of ambition and laziness and poor decision making. They could rise up just like Neil did anytime they wanted.
Stuck here in this halfway house, that he was paying half of his monthly allowance for, cut-off from his family seemingly forever, his life being controlled with curfews and location tracking Neil decided he wasn’t going to just sit and accept it. If the Greys offered him away to fight back he was going to take it.
Checking his watch he saw it was time to go. With a clarity he hadn;t had since he left prison Neil got up form the couch, took his phone out and deliberately set it down on the small dining room table. Even thought he’d memorised the walk to the meeting location, the idea of leaving his phone behind made hi feel uncomfortable. 
He strode to his front door, at the last moment he remembered he was still wearing his watch, which as all watches were, was linked to his phone. Disgusted at the thought of being tracked again, Neil took the watch off and threw it back into the room, not caring where it landed and walked out with a steely determination to change the course of his life.








CHAPTER 10

THE GREYS (NEIL 4)


It was 6:45pm, the sun had gone down, but the soft glow of dusk was keeping the street light enough for Neil to see the building across the road.
He’d taken a round-about route and tried as best he could to sneak up on the building. It looked different in real life, but he could pick out features he saw on the plans. The old brown brick facade gave up its age, although some of those bricks might have been over a hundred years old, the building itself was built only about ten or twenty years ago. Neil had been involved with some of these nouveau brown stone buildings using the reclaimed old city bricks. He’d never really understood the point of them, but was told by architects and town planners they were trying to bring create a warmer suburban streetscape than the ubiquitous glass and steel of the city. It was very costly and the buildings just looked dirty after a while, plus it never brought in the desired demographics, so the style was mostly abandoned for some new stylistic fad.
This particular building, the one Rook had told him to come to at 7pm, was dark. No lights were showing in any of the four floors of windows facing the street, apart from the lone light over the front door. 
Neil had placed himself across the road in unlight alley with a good view of the front of the building, in the ten minutes he’d been there he hadn’t seen anyone go in or out. Most of the offices would have closed hours ago, so it wasn’t surprising.
A bus passed, it was the 533 to the hub by the panel on the side of it. Neil was waiting for it, without a watch of any kind he’d figured he’d need to have some way to tell the time. He looked up the timetable before he left his apartment and knew the 533 would arrive at the stop a just a block up the road at 6:55pm. He knew had five minutes before he had to go inside, or not.
He swallowed at the thought of it, he just didn’t know enough about these so-called Greys, only snippets of rumours overheard from workers and a clear admonishment from Knox about not getting involved with Rook and his friends.
“Now wasn’t to the time to lose your nerve” he thought and he stood straight readying himself to dash across the road in a effort not to be seen by too many people, thankfully the traffic was light.
Suddenly, a firm hand grabbed his shoulder from behind and a voice whispered into his ear just inches away from him “See anything over there?” the voice mocked as the hand slowly released the pressure.
Neil turned around warily to see Rook standing in the alleyway behind him, his face somehow a mixture of amusement and threat at the same time.
“Not going to see anyone going into that building, smart move scouting it out” Rook said, a hint of approval in the words.
“Follow me” Rook said as he turned and walked into to the darkness of the alley.
Neil did as he was told, how long had they been watching him standing here thinking he was so smart that he’d get the jump on them somehow?
Moments later a door in the side of the building opened for Rook, a faint light spilled out onto the alley blocked mostly by another man in the doorway.
He gruffly barked “Hurry up”
Neil followed Rook inside, the door was closed quietly behind him, bolts were locked, Neil wasn’t getting out of this.
#
Neil was standing in a corridor, the led panel in the ceiling was painted black suffocation most of it’s light. The door to the alley had been locked shut by a mechanical lock, the likes of which Neil hadn’t seen in real life. A wheel in the centre of the door pushed bars into bolts into the door frame on all four sides. No digital access codes here, strictly steel and human muscle to lock it.
Rook nodded at the burly man who’d locked it shut, he turned away and walked down the corridor towards the front of the building and disappeared around a corner.
Neil stood there not knowing what to do, did he follow the man or not? 
Rook spoke in normal voice “Glad you could make it, sorry about the subterfuge, you never can be too careful, not everyone can keep their secrets” Rook’s eyes bore into Neil, was he waiting for him to say something? 
Neil didn’t flinch and shrugged “You do what you need to do I guess”
Rook simply nodded, the silence lingered. Neil avoided the need to fill it with hos own words, a trick he’d learnt in prison: silence was often a trap, baiting you into saying more than you wanted to. So he waited.
After few minutes the man came back, despite outweighing Neil and Rook by at least fifty pounds, he was light and quiet on his feet.
He spoke to Rook “I can’t see anyone out there, scanners show no signs either.”
Rook said “Good, keep an eye on it, they might be waiting to turn thier devices on later to catch us out”
Neil was confused “Catch who out?” he asked.
Rook, glancing back at Neil said coldly “Friends of yours maybe, you’d better hope there aren’t any”
Speaking again to the man “If any thing pop’s up you come running to us, understood?”
“Understood” said the man, and strode back down the corridor and out of sight.
Rook looked at Neil appraisingly “So, first test passed, but that was just the first course, the real test comes next” he gestured the down the corridor the opposite direction to the where man had gone and started walking.
Neil having been standing in the same spot for the last few minutes was caught flatfooted and he scrambled to catch up as Rook reached the end of the corridor, opened the door and waved Neil into the room.
Neil brushed past Rook and entered the room, it was hard to make out anything in the room, the LED ceiling panels were painted back just like in the corridor. He stepped inside the room a bit further instinctively to allow Rook to come in, but he didn’t. Rook simply smiled and closed the door behind Neil.
That was the second time the doors have been shut behind him tonight thought Neil as he stood in the dimly light room.
The room was silent and from what he could see empty, what the hell was this?
With a loud click, shocking bright lights flashed on directly in Neil’s face blinding him, instinctively he slammed his eyes shut as he put his hands up to shield his face from the painful brightness. He couldn’t see a thing, but he heard all to clearly a door open on the other side of the room and footstep clicking against the tiled floor.
“Hello Neil” a female voice said.
Who was this? Neil’s mind was racing, his eyes squeezed shut in pain making it hard to think.
“Take your time, relax you’ll get you eyesight back eventually” the female voice said.
He could hear furniture being dragged towards him, then the footsteps backed away.
“There’s a chair on your right, take seat, you’ll be more comfortable”
Neil felt around and his hand hit the back of the chair, he slumped into the seat getting his bearing back “Can you turn off the fucking lights!”
“Sorry, can’t its part of the security protocol, it’s best for both of if you can’t identify me, they stay on.” she said in a matter of fact way.
Neil was rubbing his eyes, the bright spots were slowly fading and he risked cracking his eyelids open, the lights were still there, but had been turned down.
Squinting into the room he could make out a dark figure behind the lights, but that was all.
“Ok, I’m here and I’m blind, what did you want?” Neil asked getting annoyed now.
A chuckle “I like the fire in you’re belly, we could use that. I guess an introduction is in order, you can call me Vex” the voice was smooth and commanding.
Neil didn’t think Vex was someone he wanted to cross just form the way she spoke, he reminded himself he was in dangerous territory and to watch his words carefully.
Vex spoke again “My friend Rook tells me you’ve been having a bit of a tough time since you left prison?”
Neil answered “I won’t lie to you, it’s been shit, I may as well have stayed in prison for all the difference it makes”
“I believe that Neil, most of us know that we’ll never be amongst the elites, but Neil you’ve been there, a Level 7 no less, so you have a unique perspective” Vex said.
She continued “I also understand that you’ve had a warning for trying to reach your wife and Daughter?”
How did they know that? “Fuck their warning, who are they to tell me if I can or can;t see my own flash and blood” the subject still got Neil angry.
Vex calmly said “Neil, whilst I love the passion, a word of advice, keep it under wraps if you want to be my friend, I need people who can control themselves”
Chastened Neil responded “I can control myself just fine, but we’d better be talking about away to get the people who put me here”
“Oh Neil, we can do better than that. What if I told you your family never requested no contact, that they’ve been kept from you as much as you’ve been kept from them?” Vex’s voice was soothing.
Hope swelled up inside Neil, could this be true? were they just playing him?
Cautiously he said “I’d say that’s a big claim, you’d need to it prove to me”
“We can do that, lets make a deal, a quid pro quo if you will, I’ll get you in front of your family without any one knowing or you being sent back to prison, if you’ll do something for me… how does that sound?” Vex asked.
Neil was floored, could they really do it? “What do I have to do?”
Vex, as smooth as ever said “We’ll let you know in due course, all I need to know now is a yes or no”
Neil wasn’t sure what saying no would result in, but he didn’t have anything to loose anyway and said “You’ve got deal, but you’d better deliver”
“Back at you Neil, Rook will fill you in”
The light went out and the room was plunged into darkness, Neils eye’s had now adjusted to the brightness and he was blind again. The door at the other end of the room opened and shut as Vex left, Neil was alone again.
What had he agreed to do he wondered?
#
Neil was waiting for the morning bus to his job in the Rust Belt. The weather was starting to get cold now as Fall set in, here in the outer the cold seemed to get amplified by the drab mostly grey streetscape. Neil shuddered a little thinking what winter had in store here.
He was just going through the motions of his new life now, yet again he found himself waiting for something to happen. It had been hard to pretend things were normal for him, he found himself second guessing routine conversations, was the person he was talking a Grey, secretly testing him, was the new face on the bus a Grey keeping an eye on him. He was on edge.
Neil hadn’t heard anything more from his meeting over a week ago with Vex. It had ended with a whimper. Rook must have got some sort of signal that Vex had left and the meeting was over had opened the door and quickly ushered him out of the building into the darkness of the alleyway. The only further information he’d got was Rook uttering a single cryptic sentence. “We’ll be in touch, just keep your nose clean”
With that the door had been shut and he had to move fast to get back to the half-way house to beat the curfew. Luckily Neil had made it back easily and Grant was nowhere to be seen when he passed through the lobby, he wasn’t sure he’d had been able to deal with questions about where he’d been without his phone.
The bus pulled up and Neil shuffled on with the rest of the workers waiting and sat in his favourite window seat. He found looking out the windows in the morning seemed to calm him. 
The bus was almost full, but no one had sat next to him, in fact since the meeting he’d mostly sat by himself. It was as if he had some invisible mark on him now that told everyone he was someone to be avoided, it was off putting, but as far as he was aware nobody knew about his meeting. Neil didn’t mind he wasn’t in much of a mood to have company anyway.
At the next stop a man finally took up the seat next to Neil, they nodded at each other and Neil turned back to the window as the bus pulled away on it’s journey to the Rust Belt factories.
The man put his bead back and went to sleep, Neil dosed off looking out the window.
Neil was jolted away by the man sitting next to him elbowing him in the ribs, he had realising he’d fallen asleep. He glanced out of the window and saw they were only minutes from the bus stop at his office. The elbowing had stopped now the man saw Neil was awake. Before he could form any words to ask just what the hell he was doing, the man leaned in to Neil and said “Rook says hello”
Neil was instantly alert now, the mention of Rooks name dumped a jolt of adrenalin through his body dispelling any lingering grogginess. 
He asked the man “Are you a friend of Rooks?” 
The man nodded “You can call me Brask, Rook’s got a job for you, but he’s asked me to work with you on it”
Neil was a bit confused “I’ve got a job, and the deal I had with Vex was a two way street”
Brask looked around to make sure no one was listening in and gestured sharply to Neil to be quiet “Shhh… don’t say that name in public, not ever if you value your life. You’re lucky someone so important has taken an interest in you. From now on you deal only with me ok?” 
It was statement not a question, just like Rook did, Brask came looked fairly unremarkable, but there was a menace to the man that made Neil’s skin crawl.
Brask continued “I know about your deal, you do this one small job first and I’ll show you how you can see your family again” 
Neil wanting this conversation over “Ok, what is it”
Brask handed over a small flash card about the size of a thumbnail, with a handwritten note tightly wrapped around it and said “There’s a job Stratum Projects has worked on and we need to get all the plans for it, especially electrical, data and security. Dump it all on to the flash card, wear your red jumper to work when it’s done and someone will get the card from you. Names on the note, memorise it, destroy the note” Brask said completely flatly in a tone that said he wasn’t going to be repeating himself
Neil took the card and note “I’m not sure if I can access projects I’m not working on.” 
Brask bluntly said “Find a way, or no family reunion, you have three days”
The bus had just pulled up to the stop and Brask sprung to his feet and walked off, thier conversation was over. 
Neil pocketed the note wrapped flash card and took time to calm himself down, he was the last off the bus.
This was the point where he had to produce a result, Neil had made the decision a week ago to do whatever he needed to do see his family. but today it got real. He’d been expecting it, but he hadn’t anticipated the mixture of nerves and excitement at the task ahead.
#
Stratum Projects looked and acted like very much like a normal large commercial builder doing run of the mill large government and corporate projects. Neil hadn’t seen anything in the time he’d been working at there to think it was anything other than what it looked like. Now he was wondering if he’d missed something.
The note Rook gave him only had a project number, no name or any other identifying details. That wasn’t in itself uncommon as most projects were filled under project numbers here, however he didn’t recognise the number format.
With the flash card stashed and the note torn up and thrown away into two different rubbish bins, Neil had made his way up the third floor where his desk was located. It was a large open plan office that took up most of floor, there were windows on one side with views of the vast sprawl of factories and warehouses of the Rust Belt. Not that Neil ever got the chance to look out of them, his supervisors made sure he wasn’t wasting any time, and stopping by window to gaze at the view would be picked up on immediately.
Neil was working in the open plan area with level 4’s and 5’s most of who had been there for years, as fas as he knew he was the only Level 3 on the floor. A rare privilege.
Sitting at his terminal Neil logged-in a looked up his list of tasks for the day, a list he was given every day and was required to complete or he’d be deducted points on his monthly work assessments. A Level 3 Probationary citizen needed to have exemplary assessment scores. 
Today was just like every other day, it was mundane work sorting and collating digital files and scans of manifests and site plans from works sites with as built alterations, he could do it the work without even thinking about it, he’d have plenty of time to search for Rooks data.
Neil worked fast and efficiently for the next few hours breaking the back of his task list, stopping only for a quick break mid morning. Satisfied he’d done enough real work so far Neil waited until lunch was called, it was just a quick chime on his terminal that started a timer, he had thirty minutes to get to the canteen and back for lunch. Punctuality was very important.
No one would question if he stayed a few minutes longer at his terminal, so Neil punched in Rook’s project number into Stratums database search bar.
Nothing came up.
Neil paused and thought hard to make sure he’d remebered the number correctly and typed it in again. Nothing, not even a “no file found” answer, it was just blank as if he never searched.
Undeterred Neil widened his search out the the public building database that he also had access to. This time he got a hit”
“Project 243/402/143 – Nova Dynamics Corporation – Datacentre”.
Nova Corp, Neil remebered that name from his own company five years ago, one of the construction jobs he’d been accused corruption and bribery, and ultimately jailed for, had been for Nova Corp. 
Memories of those dodgy contacts were itching around in the back of Neil’s brain now after being dormant for years. Neil didn’t want to reawaken that part of his brain, he’d spent years working to finally accept his fate, even going so far as to tell himself that he did bear some blame for his own downfall. Seeing the Name Nova Corp there on the screen was painful.
Diving in, Neil clicked through to see the documents but immediately got a warning “Unable to access data – incorrect access level”.
“Damn” thought Neil, he wasn’t sure of how to proceed, he’d assumed it would be easy to just copy the data and be done with it.
At that moment one of his co-workers who’d also stayed back a few minutes came sauntering over to his desk, “hey Neil, lets go eat, I need to break!”
Neil quickly shut down the searches and logged off his terminal, said” Yep, me too let’s go”


#
Neil was much a social person at the best of times, this lunch even more so as he was caught up in his own world thinking how he could get access to the Nova Corp files. At the same time he just couldn’t help shake the idea that seeing the Nova Corp name again wasn’t a coincidence.
He didn’t see the two security guards coming towards him until they were standing right next to him.
“Neil Lucas” one of them said gruffly.
Startled, Neil looked up to see them standing there staring at him expectantly.
“Yes” Neil stammered.
“Please come with us” They didn’t move just kept standing and staring.
Neil looking around could see all the other staff in the canteen also starting at him, he was sure his face was bright red, it certainly felt red hot.
“Now” prompted one of the guards.
Neil stood up and one guard motioned to Neil to follow the other guard and then fell into step behind Neil as he moved away from his half eaten lunch.
“Where are we going Neil ventured”
The guard behind him spoke “You been called to see the Director of security”
“Why?” Neil asked, he knew why.
“Apparently Mr Lucas you’ve been trying to access date outside your status level” said the guard walking behind Neil.
The guard in front clicked his tongue in disgust and said over his shoulder “You shouldn’t have told him that, that’s the Directors job, just keep you’re mouth shit ok”
“Relax, like I’ve said before, it’s not confidential if they’ve told us, beside what’s this guy going to do, run away now?”
“Just keep it shut from now on” the guard in front said as they entered a waiting  lift. The first guard turned away from them to press the floor button as Neil and the second guard followed inside, as they both turned the second guard discretely placed a finger on his grey uniform and tapped for just a moment.
It took Neil a second, but it quickly dawned on him that the guard had just given him a few precious minutes to come up with an excuse as to why he was running searched for Nova Corp. 
Minutes later Neil was marched into the 8th level office of the Security Director, as the name plate on the door told him. The Director was a small man with posture of someone who’d spent too much time in front of a terminal. He didn’t get up but instead addressed Neil immediately from behind his terminal screen.
“Neil, can I call you Neil” he asked.
“Sure” Neil answered, his heart still beating fast.
“Neil, I’ll get to the point, at 12:03pm you started searching for some data that was beyond your access level. According to the logs, you searched both on the company server and then the public database” he referred to his terminal screen “for a Nova Dynamics Corporation, is that correct?”
The few minutes he’d been given had allowed Neil to formulate a strategy here, tell the truth, or at least mostly the truth.
Neil answered “Yes, I did, I didn’t think searching for them was out of my access level until the system warned me”
The Director, satisfied with Neil’s answer said “Good, no point denying it, care to tell me why you were looking up this company?”
Neil opened his hands as a sign of compliance “I’ll be honest, Nova was one of the companies involved in my trial year back, I guess I was just curious to see if they were still around”
“It sounds like you were digging into your old case” the director said “Neil, that is old news, you were convicted and served a full sentence, there is nothing to gain from poking around in the past”
Neil didn’t say anything, the narrative he’d made up was working, it was better to keep quiet now and let it take hold.
Nodding as if Neil’s silence confirmed his theory, the Director continued “Ok Neil, you didn’t access any restricted data, but you did try, so we’ll be keeping an extra eye on you from now on. I’ll be putting a note on your file that we’ve had this discussion, but if I don’t need to talk to you again I’ll delete it before your next review. If I do have to talk to you again it’s not going to be good for you, understand?”
“Yes” Neil said.
“My advice to you is to let your old case and any thoughts of digging around this Nova Corp die, you’ve got a chance a new life now, don’t waste it”
With that he waved at the two guards who had remained in the room for the whole conversation, as if Neil might have attacked the Director “Take him back please”
Neil walked away relieved, but he’d have to be much more careful now, that was too close.










CHAPTER 11

THE DEAL (NEIL 5)

Neil was thankful he’d finally finished work for the day, the hours after his lunchtime run-in with the security director had dragged long. He’d wanted to leave early, crawl back to his sparse apartment in the halfway house and shut out the world, but of course he couldn’t. No only would he be sanctioned for not completing the work day, but there was no way to get back to to the city except on his designated bus.
Not a single co-worker spoke him after lunch, not that he cared much, but yet again he felt that invisible mark, telling others he was not to be associated with, was amplified after being marched out of the canteen.
Neil trudged onto the bus with all the other regular passengers, some he knew by name, some were just nodding acquaintances. He saw Knox sitting in his regular seat by the window. Knox saw him, smiled, waved and gestured for him to sit next to him.
“Sorry, I took your seat, we can swap over if you want?” Knox said as Neil sat down.
Neil didn’t care “No, it’s ok, I haven’t seem you around for a bit” he said.
“They moved me onto a different shift, I’m only on this bus once a week now” Knox responded.
Neil shrugged, Knox had been very helpful to him when he’d first started working at the office right out of jail, but as Neil had found his way he needed Knox’s advice less and less. Neil thought well of Knox and didn’t want to be rude, but this evening he was too preoccupied with other matters to engage in polite conversation.
After a moment Knox spoke again “So, what was that all about at lunch?”
Neil expected the question “Just a misunderstanding, all sorted now”
“From what I heard you were marched out of the canteen by security and taken to the Security Director’s office” Knox pressed “Seems a bit more than a misunderstanding”
News travelled fast, he was the subject of the office gossip now thought Neil “Seems you know more about it than I do” he said.
Knox frowned “Neil, I’m just trying to help here, it’s only been a month or so since you started and you’re getting hauled off by security guards”
Neil sighed, he didn’t want to be mean to Knox, but he also didn’t want to be in this conversation, he said “Sorry, I’m just working through some stuff, nothing you need to worry about”
Knox nodded “I know, it can be tough adjusting to this life, but you have too, otherwise you’ll end up back in jail and then there’s no chance of climbing back”
Neil really didn’t have the energy for this, his frustration was building “Ever since I got out, it’s been: don’t do this or that or you go back to jail, basically be a good little slave or go back to jail, I’ll tell you from where I’m sitting, I’m still in Jail.”
Knox shushed Neil “Careful, if anyone’s phone picks up what you just said you’ll get a language warning”
Neil shook his head “See that’s exactly my point, don’t worry my phone is buried in my pocket here” he tapped his jacket.
Knox, was concerned now, he said “Neil, what’s going on? When we spoke last you were ok. I know you had the warning from trying to meet your family, but something’s changed”
Neil was getting even more frustrated now “Knox, firstly I’ll never stop trying to get my family back, I don’t give shit what some people are telling me, I know my wife and there’s no way she’d abandon me… besides I’m working on a way to see them now”
Know raised his eyebrows “Working on a way? You’ve been warned and you have no idea where they are, what possible way could you have?”
Neil looked directly at Knox now and deliberately said “Knox, I’m making friends now with people who can help me”
Knox paled and shook his head “Neil, don’t tell me it’s Rook”
How did he guess so quickly? “Knox, Rook is misunderstood, but he’s a man who thinks like me, someone who takes action, instead of cowering and complying” Neil said pointedly.
“Neil, you don’t understand, Rook is not your friend and his friends are not your friends, I’ve seen too many people get hurt going down that path” Knox said.
Neil shrugged, he had no response.
Knox pushed the point “I’m deadly serious, those friends will not hesitate to burn you and put you back in jail, or worse, you don’t want to owe them.”
“Thanks for the advice Knox, I’m not playing anyone’s games anymore, I’ll do as I please” Neil said flatly.
“Did you do a deal?” Knox asked simply.
“No deal, they help me and I help them” Neil replied, now really wanting to end this conversation.
“That sounds like a deal, what do you have to do?” Knox asked.
“I’ll handle it Knox. If you don’t like it I’m not forcing you to be my friend, you can keep on accepting this shit, I’ll make my own way” with that Neil stood and moved to an empty seat few rows further back up the bus, He didn’t care if Knox had anything else to say. 
The man in the other seat was asleep, Neil put his head back and closed his eyes, but he didn’t go to sleep. Knox had made him question the deal he’d done with Vex and the Greys. He didn’t see a way to back out now, even if he wanted to, they were expecting results from him and Neil didn’t feel like Vex was someone you wanted to let down.
#
Neil was nervous this morning, he had two more days to deliver the plans to Brask. He had Knox’s words ringing in his ears, these were not people you disappointed without consequences.
His first attempt yesterday at getting the files had been poorly thought out, clumsy and had very nearly got him sent back to jail. Neil resolved to be better, if he was going down this path with Rook and Vex and the whole shadowy Grey organisation, he’d better smarten up quickly. 
Neil had been up most of the night thinking about how he was going to get past the system, an inkling of a plan had formed, but it would require equal parts; nerve, timing and luck. 
Mostly though, he needed some help. The problem was he had no way of contacting Brask or Rook, they just sort of turned up when they needed to talk to him. This morning he was going to take a big risk, he wore his faded red jumper to work, knowing full well that he had nothing for them.
Neil was up and out of his apartment building early so he could stand outside at the bus stop in full view in his red jumper for at least fifteen minutes before the bus arrived.
His message must have been seen. Just as the bus was about to pull away, Brask jumped on. It looked like he had been running, his cheeks were flushed and he was puffing with the effort of getting to the bus stop. Neil grimaced that Brask had been made to run to him for nothing.
Brask sat next to Neil in the now customary empty seat and let out a few big breaths trying to slow his breathing down. Whilst Brask was recovering from his exertion, Neil considered just how quickly Brask had got the message and onto the bus, was Brask, or someone else watching Neil now? That thought worried him.
Brask now mostly recovered, spoke first “So, you’ve got something for me I see? I’m impressed” his held out waiting to receive the flash card.
Neil swallowed, there was no easy way to say it “No, I don’t”
Brask slowly withdrew his hand, his face went from light to dark and his eyes bore into Neil’s with an intensity that scared Neil “What do you mean?” he asked.
Neil was about to answer and Brask waved him to silence. He reached into his pocket and pulled out a small dark grey box, about half the size of a phone, and clicked a button on the side, before putting it back in his pocket.
Brask said pointedly “You were saying?”
What was the box for? thought Neil “Are you recording me? If you are you can tell Vex and whoever else wants to know, I can’t do what they are asking” his anger rising as he said it.
Brask grabbed Neil’s arm and held it menacingly tight, very deliberately and slowly responded “Neil, you’d better start acting smart, right now, you made a deal and I’m here to make sure you deliver, it’s not just your head on the block if you don’t, do you understand me?” The grip tightened.
Neil tried to pull his arm away, but Brask was too strong and they were sitting shoulder to shoulder, there was nowhere to move. 
Brask shook Neil’s arm when he didn’t answer, his face a grimace of anger now “Do you understand?”
Neil felt trapped, even though the bus was full with witnesses. “I understand, I get it, let go of me”
Brask’s grip didn’t loosen “I’m on the hook just as much as you are, if you don’t deliver, then I don’t deliver and I’m not looking to get sanctioned” with that statement Brask let go of Neil’s arm.
The intense stare remained “Now tell me how you’re going to get the files, I don’t want to hear any fucking excuses.”
It was all or nothing now and he didn’t like the sound of being sanctioned either, Neil said “I tried once and almost got caught, I can’t get the files you want from my terminal, they’re well above me grade as a Level 3. Just typing in the project number got me pinged”
Brask had calmed down slightly and asked “You didn’t waste my time this morning to tell me how you can’t do it, you must have an idea have how you can do it?”
Neil answered “Yes, that’s why I needed to talk to you, I know how to get the files, but I need help.” He paused “Is it safe to talk here?”
Brask, patted the pocket where the little grey device was and said “We’re good to talk, nothing will overhear us”
Ok, so not recording, but blocking thought Neil, he’d have to trust Brask on that, he outlaid his plan “There’s a Level 6 on the floor who manages the whole office, not me personally, but he manages the level 5’s who manage the ex-cons. His terminal will have access, but I can’t get to his office without being seen by the security system”
 Neil ploughed on “I thought I saw a sign from one of the security guards who saved my arse yesterday, maybe he is sympathetic to us? Maybe he’s someone who could help with the camera’s in the office?” 
That was it, Neil’s plan as much it it was, if he couldn’t solve the security camera issues he didn’t have a back up.
Brask looked at Neil, not saying anything just pondering what Neil has just said.
Eventually he spoke “I don’t know anything about any security guards. What I do know is your plan is pretty damn flimsy” 
Brask was silent again, so was Neil, his plan looked like it had failed before it had even started.
Brask nodded and finally said “Ok, I’ll see what I can do. Don’t do anything today, I’ll be in touch”
Brask made a show of reaching into his pocket and switching off the blocker, then putting his head back and closing his eyes. Cleary the conversation was over, but Neil felt a small glimmer of hope now, at least the first part of his plan had worked. Now he had to work out how to hack into his boss’s terminal.
#
Neil had spent the day after his brief and unfriendly conversation with Brask doing his best to look small and cowed, like he was suitably embarrassed from the previous day’s ignominy of being led out of the canteen by security. 
He didn’t take his lunch, but instead worked through the break to get a better sense of the ebb and flow his colleagues into and out of the office during the day. It was at that point Neil realised he’d been unconsciously taking mental notes of his colleagues movements for weeks now. It was an old habit from his time in construction, he’d had to keep an eye on his workers coming and going on various job sites so he wasn’t getting ripped off. He was glad it was something he hadn’t forgotten in the years since.
This morning he was expecting Brask to show up on his bus and give him some news, but to Neil’s disappointment no one showed up, neither Brask or Rook sat next to him, the seat remained noticeably empty the whole trip.
Had they decided to cut him loose? What did that mean for his reunion with his family? Telling himself to relax, Neil reasoned that he’d made a pretty unexpected demand, they, whoever they were, would likely take some time to get back him. He guessed it would show just how well connected the Greys were.
Still, there was a part of mind that was telling him he’d blown it, and he couldn’t shake it off. 
Neil got off the bus and paused at the bus stop, perhaps someone would reach out to him here. Standing there as everyone else walked off to thier various factories and offices, looking around, whilst trying not to look like he was looking around, made him feel stupid and far too conspicuous, he reluctantly walked towards his office. The part of his mind that was telling him he’d blown it grew louder.
About half way along the path from the bus stop to his office a group of factory workers rushed past Neil, by the looks of thier uniforms they were from the factory next door and must have been late. Suddenly a hand grabbed the back of Neil’s arm and a voice whispered fast and close in Neil’s ear said “Camera’s will be off at lunch time”.
The grip was released and a man sprinted from behind Neil, he was wearing the same uniform as the factory workers who’d just rushed past. Neil tried to see his face or commit to memory anything about the man, but he never turned back and he quickly reached the group in front and seamlessly merged into the little crowd so the Neil could no longer pick which one he was.
Neil was shocked by the suddenness of the contact, he’d been half expecting another bus trip with Brask or Rook, the fact that this was yet another person who was somehow connected made Neil think the Greys were bigger than he thought.
The message was clear, the cameras in office would be off at lunch time, giving Neil the chance to get into his Manager’s office. Now he just needed to work out how to access the terminal.
#
The hours before lunch dragged on, Neil sat at his desk terminal working in a heightened sense of alertness. He scrutinised every conversation, every look, every movement of the other staff on the floor for signs they were watching him, that they might know what he was about to do.
Neil felt like anything he did or said was going to give him away, which was silly really. He was simply going to walk into the executive office, pull up the files on the terminal and copy them. It was not a complicated task and it would be done in minutes, he might even get some time for lunch afterwards.
After an eternity his terminal chimed for the lunch break, the staff on the floor made thier way out of the office to the canteen. No one gave Neil a second looked when he didn’t get and go with the crowd, no asked him to join them, seems they were all happy for him to stay in the office, Neil felt invisible.
Neil had seen manager leave his office at least fifteen minutes before the lunch break, being a Level 6 out here in the Rust Belt meant being the top of the heap, so there were no timed lunches for him, he could come and go as he pleased.
That was it, the last group had left the office, Neil waited until the lift doors closed on them. “Go Now!” the told himself as started to hesitate.
He stood abruptly up from his desk and walked briskly across the large open plan office, past the now empty desks and terminals, past the little bank of  waist height bookshelves and cupboards that created a corridor between and the main worked and and the glass offices. 
Neil looked the the camera on the ceiling as he walked into the manager’s office, there was no indication if it was working or now, he was taking a leap of faith that no one was watching on the other end.
Neil skirted around the desk and sat at the terminal, it was locked. He knew it would be, most terminals were opened automatically by the authorised users smartphone or watched, so no one used password anymore. Neil, being a Level 3, didn’t get the luxury of smart wearables and had to log in to his terminal manually. The systems tech who showed him how to log-in on his first day, told him it was little hack they’d built just for him as he was the only Level 3 they’d ever had in the office.
Neil just hoped the same hack worked on this terminal.
He keyed in the sequence to open up the manual log-in. Yes! the script worked and the manual log-in prompt appeared. 
Neil typed in the manager’s name, Brentan Hall, in the same format as he typed in his own. 
He typed in the system password he remebered the tech use to activate his terminal back on that first day, he hadn’t meant to look, but the tech took no care to hide it, Neil just hoped it was a universal password.
[User name and password don’t match]
Damn it, did he remember it correctly? Neil very deliberately typed the password again making sure he didn’t make any mistakes.
[User name and password don’t match]
Neil wasn’t sure how many attempts he had, or if he could actually get in at all now. He was starting to sweat with the prospect of failure.
The office was quiet apart from the low hum of the air-conditioning, otherwise Neil wouldn’t have heard the lift quietly chime as it’s doors opened. Brentan Hall stepped out. Shit! 
He quickly exited the log-in prompt and looked up, Brentan was already half way to the office and moving fast. Neil didn’t have time to leave without being seen and had no choice but to duck into the small ensuite attached to the office, he slide the door close just as Brentan stepped in.
He was talking on his phone “Yep, I’m in my office now, give me two minutes, the boss is riding me to get this report sent” He sat at the desk and clicked through his emails looking for something.
“Don’t you leave without me you arseholes! Remember who’s paying for the first round!” He said all to loudly in the empty office, Neil only meters away in the ensuite held his breath.
“Here it is, these fucking criminals I have to babysit finally did something right… and it’s sent, no need to come back here today! I’ll be back down there in sixty seconds”
Neil could hear Brentan exit the office just as loudly and quickly as he entered, after a few second he snuck the ensuite door open and saw Brentan entering the lift, still on his phone.
Neil looked back into the office, Brentan hadn’t logged off his terminal, he’s just walked out assuming, as most people would, the terminal would automatically log-him off in a minute or two.
What a stroke of luck, Neil rushed to the terminal to stop it from shutting down. His heart was racing at the near miss, but the terminal was open with full access, he quickly opened up the file database and entered in the project number.
This time the search came back with the full project listing and more importantly, no warnings, even though Neil was still half expecting an alarm to go off somewhere.
[Project 243/402/143 – Nova Dynamics Corporation – Datacentre]
[Open project folder? Y/N]
Neil paused, then deliberately pressed Yes, he looked around the office, it was still empty.
The project folder opened, inside were multiple subsidiary folders, he scrolled through to find the floor plans and the electrical and data schematics. Jackpot! They were all there.
He placed the flash card on the screen and dragged all of the files over to it to copy them across. Neil checked the clock on the terminal, it had been more than twenty minutes since lunch was called, he needed to get out of this office.
It took only a few seconds, data transfers were normally blindingly fast these days and all the files had successfully copied. Neil pocketed the card, logged out of the database and bolted out of the office. 
He didn’t go back to his desk, but headed over to the bathroom, he needed to wash the sheen of sweat off his face that he hadn’t noticed had built up whilst he was hiding out in the ensuite. He also needed to a private place to take some big deep breaths away from the office. Neil, stood in the empty bathroom, looking at himself in the mirror, he’d splashed some cold water onto his face try and calm himself down, he’d go back to the office when his hands stopped shaking.
Ten minutes later Neil was sitting comfortably back at his desk when the first of his colleagues started trickling back from lunch. Just as they had when they left, they ignored Neil who looked like he just been siting there working the whole time. 
He spent the rest of the day expecting security to come in and haul him off again, steeling himself for the inevitable every time the lift doors chimed open, but it never happened. The Grey’s were as good as thier word, a fact which was both exciting and terrifying.

#
Neil didn’t think it was possible to sleep at all that night, the buzz of his successful little piece of industrial espionage, and the prospect of getting to meet his family once he delivered the data to the Greys had Neil amped up with excitement by the time he got back to his simple apartment.
His body however had other ideas and the adrenaline dump from almost being caught in the office drained him of his energy and he quickly passed out and slept a deep sleep.
The next morning Neil allowed himself to be excited for the first time since he was released from jail, there might be a path out of this. Through he told himself not to get to far ahead as he’d been disappointed enough already. Regardless, Neil stepped out to the bus stop in front of his halfway house in the same faded red jumper he wore yesterday with a little bit of a spring in his step. Today he had something to deliver.
Brask was already standing at the stop, in fact he was the only one there as Neil was again about fifteen minutes early for the bus. How long had he been out there wondered Neil. 
He nodded to Neil and put his hand our as if to shake Neil’s as he approached him, Neil understood what what going on immediately and slipped the flash card into his hand and slapped it into Brask’s palm as they shook hands. 
Brask seamlessly took the card from the handshake and then just kept walking down the street, the only words exchanged between the pair was Brask whispering “We’ll be in touch” as he passed Neil.
Neil empty-handed now turned and watched Brask swiftly moving down the street and before Neil could think about chasing after him, Brask just as swiftly disappeared around the corner. 
Once again Neil was shocked, this was not how he expected this to go, he wanted to know how they were going to hold up thier end of the bargain, but he resolved to be patient this time.
The other workers were filing to the bus stop now, Neil tried attempted to blend back into the crowd of half awake bleary eyed workers despite being very much wide awake.






CHAPTER 12

REUNION (NEIL 6)

It had been three agonising days of waiting for the Greys to contact him with a way to see his family again. Neil was just about at the end of this newly found patience, frankly he was sick of this one way communications deal in general. He’d made a deal with Vex and he’d put himself at great risk to get the data they wanted, these Greys had better hold up thier end of the bargain too. 
 Neil wasn’t actually sure what how they were going to contact him, it seems like they took pleasure in reaching out in different ways each time they wanted to talk to him. He‘d been on edge waiting for contact every time he left his meagre apartment, was it going to be at the bus stop, on the bus, at the office, he didn’t know how or when it was going to happen, he just had to be prepared for anything.
He wasn’t prepared for the soft knock on his door. He looked at the clock on the wall, it read “6:01am” he wasn’t late and no one had ever knocked on his door in the time he’d lived here. It was kind of a unwritten rule, you didn’t disturb people here.
He tentatively walked to the door and asked “Who is it, I’ll be out on time”
There was another knock, more insistent but still quiet.
“Grant is that you? just come on it if it is” Neil said, he was getting a little nervous now.
The voice on the other side simply said “Fucking let me in Neil.”
He knew that voice and opened the door to see Brask standing outside. He didn’t wait to get invited in and rushed past Neil “Close the door” he said.
Neil closed the door and just stood there starting at Brask, it was very disconcerting to see Brask in his standing in his apartment. The man had a menace to him that Neil had never got comfortable with, having him standing there inside the place he lived chilled Neil.
Brask sat down at the small dining table and gestured for Neil to sit too, which he did reluctantly. Brask reached into his pocket and pulled out the same small dark grey box he’d used on the bus a few days ago. He left it on the table in between them.
Brask pointed to it and said “This stops any phone or mic within ten meters from listening into conversation, this is yours He pushed it over to Neil. 
“From now on you keep this on you and make sure it’s activated anytime you’re saying something you shouldn’t be saying. If we’re talking assume I’m using mine. Don’t show it to anyone, ever” Brask paused and looked directly at Neil.
Neil realised Brask was waiting for an answer and he said “ Yes… ok…”
Brask nodded and continued “Make sure of it, if you’re caught with it, going back to jail is the least of your problems… Oh, and if you’re thinking why don’t I just keep it on all the time? Don’t do that, when it’s on keep the conversations short, a small short local outage of connected devices will be ignored as a glitch, but any longer than ten or so minutes will alert the system” 
Brask paused to let that sink in with Neil and them asked “Any questions?”
Neil answered “Why do I get this now?”
“You get this now, because you delivered big time. We checked the data you got us, it was a fucking gold mine and means we can do things we never though of doing before. Some important people are very happy, and against my advice want to read you in on another project.” Brask said.
Neil was actually excited by that prospect, they were so many questions he wanted to ask, but it came down to just one thing he needed to know. “Ok, so what about my family?” he asked.
Brask smiled wryly “We always honour our deals, the other reason you’re getting that is you’ll need it today” Brask said.
Neil was confused and blurted out “Listen I’m not doing another job until…”
Brask cut him off “Relax Neil, it’s no job, you’re meeting your family today”
Neil managed to stammer “What… today… how?”
Brask was enjoyed this too much “Today you’re sick and can’t make it into the office, the office is aware. We’ll wait here until everyone has left the building then we’ll head straight to your little family reunion.”
“What about Grant?” Neil asked
“You’ll find he has an appointment out of the building all day today. As far as he’s concerned you’ve been up here in bed sick all day.”
The enormity of what Brask had said was just hitting Neil. He couldn’t believe after all these years he was finally going to see his wife and daughter again. He didn’t think it would be so immediate, the speed of what was happening had Neil’s head spinning, he had to put his hands on the table to stop from falling out of his chair.
Brask on the other hand was sitting across from Neil calmly watching the emotions rolled through Neil. After a little while as he let Neil sit with his thoughts he stood up and walked the few steps over to the small kitchenette and asked “You got any Coffee in this shithole?”
#
For the next hour or so Neil felt like a caged animal as he and Brask sat in the lounge of his small apartment waiting for the building to empty out.
Neil tried to start a conversation with Brask after he’d made a second coffee from Neil’s supplies.
“How long do we need to wait?” Neil asked.
Brask looked at his watch “Soon enough, I’l tell you when it’s time, no need to ask” 
Neil had so many questions ”Where are we going?”
Brask, deliberately put his cup down on the table “Stop asking questions, you’ll leave when we’re ready, and you’ll go where we take you” he picked up the coffee and took another sip and grimaced “This really is shit, do me a favour and next time buy something better”
“I didn’t expect company this morning” Neil said “I can’t just keep sitting here, should we wait outside?”
Brask closed his eyes and sipped the coffee again, he leaned back in the chair and said “Listen, I didn’t come here to have deep and meaningful conversation with you, so shut the fuck up and stop asking me questions”.
Neil heard the menace creep into Brask’s answer and decided not to push it, so he sat there quietly. He slowly lost himself in thought, playing in his mind over and over again what he’d say when he saw his family again.
Half an hour later Neil was daydreaming and Brask was dosing, the chime from Brask’s phone broke the silence. He was alert immediately and checked the message.
“Ok, time for you to go, there’s car waiting for you around the back” Brask said.
Finally! Neil got up to leave, but Brask stayed where he was “You coming?” Neil asked.
Brask shook his head “Do I look like a fucking driver? This next bit is only for you, don’t screw it up, whatever instructions you get, you follow them to the absolute letter.”
Neil hesitated, the thought of Brask staying in his apartment, as much as it was, whilst he wasn’t here did not fill Neil with a great deal of joy. 
“Are you staying here?” Neil asked
“It’s got to look like someone’s here all day doesn’t it? Now piss off, the car’s waiting” Brask pointed to the door.
Neil hesitated for only a second and then left Brask sitting at his table.
#
Neil rushed downstairs, Brask was right, the building was empty, but that wouldn’t last long, the night shift workers would be coming back soon. He was glad to see Grant’s office was empty, this was a huge step outside the rules and he didn’t think Grant was the kind of person who was going to looked past it.
Neil went out through the rec room and the laundry to the back exit where the rubbish was kept. 
There was a nondescript white EV waiting, it was nothing fancy and certainly didn’t look out of place out here in the Outer. Neil approached the car and the passenger side door opened, he tried to see who was in the car before he got in, but the tinting had been turn up to full.
Neil hesitantly got into the car, he was greeted by a dark haired woman sitting behind the wheel.
“Hi Neil, big day for you” she said.
Neil recognised that voice, but not the face, last time they spoke all he could see was as black silhouette as bright lights had blinded him.
“Vex” Neil ventured.
“At your service, now please close the door so we can get going” Vex said as Neil realised he’d been sitting there with the door open, perhaps subconsciously leaving an escape exit if he needed it.
He closed the door, a bit shocked Vex was the driver today, he’d expected another menacing Grey to do the job. 
Vex drove off and didn’t say anything. Neil saw the car’s console was black, no graphics, no controls, just completely blank with one flashing word in the top right hand corner: [operating]. 
Vex saw what he was looking at and gestured to the screen with one had, the other remained on the steering wheel and said “We’re pretty proud of that, it took quite some time and effort to develop that, we almost had to rebuild the car to get it to work though and of course it’s manual drive only now”
Neil realised that Vex had actually been driving the whole time, for someone who was used to auto driving for most of this life, he wasn’t all that comfortable at the thought of a person manually driving.
Vex could see Neil’s discomfort and laughed “Don’t worry, I’m actually a pretty good driver, I thought I could do with the practice today.”
Neil was once again in a situation he didn’t expect, but he was starting to get the idea that was their aim. Trying to be as nonchalant as he could be about Vex driving the car, he asked “Where are we going?”
“Not far actually, your daughter has an appointment with her doctor…”
Neil immediately interrupted “What? What’s wrong?”
“Don’t worry nothing’s wrong, it’s just a routine check up, she’s healthy and your wife’s healthy” said Vex not looking at Neil, but concentrating on the road.
Good, thought Neil, but this was still very odd and he couldn’t quite make sense of it “So I’m seeing them after the appointment?”
“No, you’ll be meeting them in the Doctor’s office. Neil officially they don’t want to see you, so we had to find a way to get you together without any eyeballs or cameras spotting you, after all right now you’re in bed sick” Vex said.
“They will want to see me, I know my family better than anyone” Neil said.
Vex simply said “We don’t know if that’s true or not, we couldn’t find any evidence they’ve tried to reach you in all these years, even after you got released, either way you’ll know the answer soon enough”
Neil was always so confident that his wife wouldn’t have abandoned him, he was always so sure there was good reason he hadn’t heard from her in all this time. He’d stuck to the though that perhaps she;’d tired but had been prevented from doing so. Vex’s snippet of information cut him deeply, what if it was true, that she really wanted nothing to do with him? The thought was too hard to bear.
“Do they even know I’m coming?” asked Neil.
Vex paused before she answered “No, they don’t know, best we could do is find this appointment in her schedule and change the doctor to a more sympathetic friend of ours.”
Neil didn’t actually care about the details og how they’d done it, he just wanted to get there and prove that he was right, he sat silently in the car trying not to let the doubts take over.
After a few minutes of silence, Vex spoke “So, that data you got for us, nice job. It’s going help us a hell of lot. I think you might have a future with us actually”
Neil wasn’t particularly interested in that conversation right now. “Ok, sure, lets just get me to my family and we can talk later”
They had driven from his halfway house right in the middle of the Outer through to the loose transition into the Green. Vex pulled into the underground carpark of a large public medical centre and parked in a spot well away from the lift. The lights in this section weren’t working creating a dark oasis within the brightly light carpark.
Vex turned to Neil, no more of the chatty demeanour, she was deadly serious, her eyes cold and dark “You have fifteen minutes, not a minute more. If you’re one second late I’m leaving, get your own way home, understood?”
Neil nodded, he didn’t have his phone, his cards, or any way to get back to his apartment, so being late was going to be an option.
Vex pointed the to the opposite side of the carpark from the public lift “Over there, see the service life, you take that one, there’s a nurse waiting for you and she’ll take you where you need to go. Time starts now.”
#
The nurse didn’t say a word to Neil, as soon as he entered the lift she pressed a finger to her lips for Neil to stay silent and she pushed the button for the 5th floor. Thankfully the lift was fast here, unlike Neil’s apartment building back in the Outer which almost seemed like you needed an invitation to use. His keen eye for construction, honed over years of contracting out lift installs, immediately recognised the make and model of the lift. It was a middle of the road product he thought to himself, he never would have installed this model, there were lots of better options out there. He wondered what this so-called Doctor was like if he was leasing in a budget building like this one, and why his wife was coming here of all places.
He didn’t have to wait long to find out, moments later the doors opened and the nurse beckoned for Neil to follow. He walked silently behind her as she entered into the back of the Doctor’s office suite from the service corridor. They walked past a small kitchenette, a storage a room and some admin offices, they weren’t empty, but no one looked up to see Neil and the nurse pass. 
The nurse stopped and pointed to a door which had a plaque that said “Consultation Room 3” and gestured for Neil to go inside.
This was it, Neil thought, he paused for a moment to take a deep breath and collect himself, he had to make this count. He opened the door and stepped into the room.
It was a Doctor’s consulting room that was not in doubt, but it was empty.
“What the fuck” thought Neil, did they bring me all this way to just screw with me.
Neil closed the door and sat in the Doctor’s chair, he resolved to be patient for at least a minute or two. He reached into his pocket and clicked on the blocker.
The door opened and his wife carrying his now six year old daughter walked in, they didn’t see him at first, his wife was holding a conversation about the stuffed Tiger she was holding.
“… yes I’m sure she knows the tigers at the zoo, they are all friends…”
Neil watched from the chair as his wife turned her gaze into the room and stopped on him. They both froze, his daughter was oblivious and still concerned with the stuffed Tiger.
All of a sudden she said “Neil? is that you? what are you doing here? how is this even possible?” words started tumbling out of her mouth. She put down thier daughter and slowly moved towards Neil as if he was a ghost that would disappear if she moved too fast.
Neil stood up nervously and said “Jen, it’s me, I’m here” 
Jen rushed to Neil and and jumped onto him embracing him with everything she had, tears flowed freely form both of them.
Jen still squeezing as tight as she could sobbed “I never thought I’d see you again!”
Neil through his own tears said “I didn’t think I would either”
Jen suddenly released the embrace and gave Neil a shove “Wait… they told me you didn’t want to see us”
Neil was shocked and responded “What are you talking about?”
Jen wiped away tears and said “They told us there was no visitation the whole time you were in jail, every time I asked they told me not to ask”
Neil could feel his anger rising now “That’s absolute bullshit...”
Jen punched him in the chest and looked over to thier daughter “Watch it” she warned. 
Thier daughter was standing there just staring at them, when Jen looked at her she ran to her and hid behind her peering at Neil around Jen’s legs.
Neil felt the tears flow again as he took in his daughter face for the first time in over five years, she’d grown so much.
Neil knelt down tentatively to get closer to her, but it was clear she didn’t recognise him. Neil was heartbroken at the realisation, the anger flared, these people had robbed him of so much.
Jen saw it too, she brought thier daughter around to her side and knelt down also and spoke to her “Clara honey, this is your…”
Neil reached out and touched Jen on the shoulder, she looked up and he shook his head.
Jen spoke again “Clara this is a very good friend of mine, Neil, be polite and say hello”
Clara shook here head and buried into Jens side, hiding away from Neil.
Jen said again “be polite Clara, Neil’s a good friend, he’s known you since you were born”
Clara stayed buried into Jen’s side.
Neil stood up and simply said “Let’s not push it”
Jen nodded and said the Clara, “Honey can you go over to the couch and play with Tiger, Neil and I want to chat”
Clara nodded and scooted over to the couch happy to be away from the emotional adults. Neil watched her with a wistful smile.
Jen spoke “How are you even here? I don’t understand?”
Neil answered “It’s a long story, and I only have a few minutes so I need to get this out ok” 
Jen nodded.
Taking a deep breath Neil spoke quickly “I’m in a halfway house in the Outer, they’ve got me there for the next year and I can’t leave until I build up enough points to get up out of Level 3. I’ve got a job in the Rust Belt, it’s an office job in construction, but it’s barely more than slave wages. I’m on a curfew seven days a week and my movements are monitored. They told me you severed contact with me as soon as I went to Jail, I didn’t believe them. I even went to our old house to find you when I got out but someone else was living there” Neil had run out of words to say and fell silent.
Jen took all this in for a few moments and finally responded taking his hand in hers “Oh Neil, I never stopped trying to reach you, they told ne the same thing, you wanted nothing to do with us, I didn’t believe it either”
Neil could feel his nerves subsiding, he was right, they had both been lied to, he asked “What about the house?”
“We had to sell up as soon as you got sent to jail, I got sent down to Level 5 and served a year as a restricted Citizen. No one wanted to talk to us, so we left it all behind and started new out here.” Jen said with sadness.
Neil made sure Jen couldn;t see the seething anger that was rising in him, it was bad enough he got sent to jail, but the slap Jen with a Restricted Citizen was somehow even worse. 
Neil had an idea and said “Write down your new address for me” he grabbed a note pad off the desk and handed it to Jen.
A knock on the door.
Jen looked alarmed “Who’s that?” she asked Neil.
He said “That means I’ve got to go, I can’t stay”
“Who is it?” Jen asked again
The knock came again, but was more insistent this time.
“I can’t tell you, not right now at least” Neil answered getting up to leave.
Jen grabbed at Neil “When will we see you again?” she pleaded.
“I don’t know, it’s not easy at all, but I’ll make sure I do, just be ready” he said
Jen nodded in acceptance and called over to Clara “Clara, come here and say good bye to Neil”
Clara came over and said “Goodbye” and held out her hand for Neil to shake.
Jen and Neil smiled together at Clara’s attempt to be an adult, Neil took her hand and said “Nice to see you again Clara, I hope we can meet up again sometime soon”
The door opened and the nurse barked at Neil “Time’s up, get out”
Neil gave Jen one final hug, waved at Clara who was back hiding being Jen’s legs and walked out of the room. The nurse closed the door behind him and said “I’d run if I was you”
Neil bolted out of the office to the lift, which was open and waiting for him, he punched the carpark button and slumped against the mirrored wall of the lift as it dropped down the floors. In no time the doors opened to the carpark and Neil rushed out to where Vex had parked. 
She was gone. Did he stay longer than he was given, he wasn’t sure time had stopped in that Doctor’s office. 
A car horn honked behind him making him jump, he turned and it was Vex. She was waiting with the door open just around the corner from the lifts, Neil jumped in and they sped out of the carpark.
#
Vex didn’t say anything once Neil jumper into the car, she concentrated on moving through the traffic and getting out of the area as quickly and smoothly as possible. Neil was thankful for the silence, he needed time to work through his feelings after his short reunion with Jen and Clara. 
He shaking a little as came down off the heights of elation seeing them after so long, the relief in learning Jen had not abandoned him was washing through him..
Yet at the same time the anger that he’d tried to suppress for years was bubbling to the surface with a ferocity that he didn’t feel like controlling. He knew his life was ruined, but to hear that Jen and Clara had been punished for something that had nothing to do with them set him off. Casting them out of the home he and Jen had built together and being sent down as Level 5 restricted citizens meant they’d had lost everything. What made it worse is that someone had lied to them both, the questions of who was behind it and for what purpose was burning in Neil’s thoughts.
Vex still wasn’t talking and Neil wanted some answers, but he was mindful of what she, and the Greys, were able to achieve on such short notice, time and again. He simply said “Thanks”
Vex smiled and said “All part of the deal Neil, you delivered for us, so we delivered for you. I hope it went well?”
Neil answered “You told me you couldn’t find any evidence they tried to contact me, yet my wife told me she tried for years, including after I was released” He let his statement sit there an accusation that needed an answer.
If Vex noticed the accusation, she wasn’t taking the bait “Neil, we couldn’t find any official records of your wife, Jen is it? making contact. I doesn’t mean she didn’t try somehow, but nothing official was lodged” Vex said whilst keeping her eyes on the road.
“You made me thing she really didn’t want to see me, why the fuck would you do that?” Neil asked.
“Neil, we just didn’t know one way or the other, better to prepare you for the worst.” Vex said.
“Fuck you” Neil said flatly.
Vex chuckled “ Neil, that’s entirely the wrong attitude to be taking, especially when I’m the one who can help you find out who did this to you. Don’t you want to know and perhaps even exact a little bit of payback?”
Neil didn’t hesitate “Just tell me who they are and I’ll rip them to shreds” his anger was now full formed and looking for a target.
Vex smiled sweetly, she knew she’d reeled Neil in “Hold on to that, we’ve got some work to do before we start ripping heads off and you’re a big part of it. Sounds like you’re all in?”
“I am” said Neil.











CHAPTER 13

FUGITIVE (JIM 6)

Jim didn’t know where he was going, once he left his old neighbourhood he drove around the city for hours. He needed to work out what to do, he was now a wanted fugitive being chased by the Police and the media. Every time he tried to grab control of his life back he’d been blindsided by something else, one escalation after another. His last 24 hours had been a blur of what felt like never ending escapes and Jim had no idea what to do next.
At the very least he was still free, which gave him options, not that he could see any real options in front of him right now. The Grant’s car was anonymous and unremarkable, just another mid-range EV effortless gliding through traffic with the windows tinted to thier maximum shielding Jim from the outside world. He felt safe for now, eventually the Grant’s would see thier car was no longer in the garage and report it stolen, Jim could only hope they were enjoying thier holiday too much to even bother looking, after all cars simply weren’t stolen in thier neighbourhood. The battery was full and it would last more than long enough, he just needed a place to go.
Jim had so many questions, the one person he knew who could help answer them was Shane. He had a place to go, Shane’s apartment.
Jim didn’t understand how or why Shane’s phone number was disconnected, but thinking about it today Jim decided he would probably do the same. It was just too risky for a Level 9 to be caught associating with a Disruptive Person who was now a Level 5 Restricted Citizen. Shane was his friend and had connections that could put at least some of this right, he admitted to himself that lessening the damage was about all he could hope for. If he could just see Shane face to face Jim was sure he’d help.
Jim set the route to Shane’s building, it wasn’t far as he’d been skirting around the edge of the central city district for a while now blending into the traffic on the inner ring roads. He’d been sitting in silence since he left the Grant’s garage, but now he had a destination, his thoughts turned to what was happening in outside the quiet solitude of the car. 
Out of habit he asked the car to turn on the news radio, but nothing happened. shaking his head at his own stupidity, this wasn’t his car, Jim activated the radio manually. 
It was the end of the financial report “…Pinnacle Analytics shares are up 7.5% on news of it acquisition of social media points monitoring start-up LevelUp. Pinnacle CEO Lucien De Montfort said of the acquisition that Pinnacle Analytics was always looking to bring innovative concepts into the family and LevelUp’s real time social media points tracking system would be game changer for citizens and would add to Pinnacles marketing leading platform. In other news Nova Corporation announced thier new data centre was now fully online providing it with computational capacity not seen since the before the Great reclamation… ”
Jim muted to volume, it was what he used to listen to most mornings, the mention of Nova Corp priced his ears though. They’d dropped him like he never existed, there was something nagging him about the whole Nova deal, he wished he’d never heard from them in the first place, none of this would have ever happened.
The car had arrived at Shane’s building, but unlike his last visit here there was to be no automatic entry into the carpark, Jim was going to have to leave the relative safety and anonymity of the car and go up to the front door in person. 
He parked about a block away down a side street and sat in the car, he told himself he was just waiting for the foot traffic to slow down a bit, but in reality he was trying to gather courage to leave the car. He looked around the car and saw a cap on the back seat, at least that would offer him a small amount of privacy, but Jim knew he could be spotted by any number of cameras so he’d have to walk very carefully.
He took a deep breath and got out. Jim pulled the cap down as low as he could to try and hide his face from the building cameras as skirted along the side of the building towards the entrance. He quickly stepped inside the public foyer of Shane’s apartment building and off the street where Jim felt exposed, anyone might recognise him at any time. 
The foyer was empty, no one was manning the small concierge desk, it was outside peak times, so Jim the space to himself. With his held held low Jim moved over to the intercom system and buzzed Shane’s penthouse on the 47th floor. It was a longshot, but he knew Shane didn’t start work some days until lunch time.
The buzzer was answered by a male voice he didn’t recognise “Hello”
“Hi, is Shane in?” asked Jim.
“Sorry, who’s this?”
“I’m an old friend of Shane’s, is he still in this morning?”
“No Shane here“ came the reply. Damn it, he must have left for work.
Jim tried a different approach “Look, I’m sorry to bother you, I was here for dinner a few nights ago and I left something being, Shanes said I could pop in and grab it, could you just buzz me up.” If he could get upstairs he could wait for Shane to come back.
“Sorry, there’s no one here, I can’t help you”
Jim pressed “Shane said it was ok, I’ll only pop in and grab my stuff, be only a few minutes”
“No, I don’t think you understand, this place is empty, no one lives here, I’m on the painting crew redoing the place for the new owners” said the man on the other end of the intercom.
“What do you mean there’s no one there? When did they leave?” asked Jim.
“Pal, I can’t help you, my crew has been here for a few weeks, I have no idea who was here before that, all I know is I’ve got to finish this job so I’ve got to go.” the intercom connection was ended.
Jim stood there silently looking at the dead intercom terminal, yet again he was caught off guard. A few weeks, the man had said, that means just after thier BBQ Shane had left. Had he even lived there in the first place? Jim had so many questions, but one thing there was no doubt of now, Shane was gone. 
Jim was jolted out of his thoughts as the the front doors slid open, the noise from the street outside bled into the near silent foyer as a couple sauntered in. Jim couldn’t stay there any longer and risk being recognised, he bolted out of the foyer before the doors slid shut again and kept going until he reached the safety of the Grant’s stolen car.
For the second time today Jim drove off without knowing where he was going, he just needed to get away and work out just what the hell was going on.
#
He didn’t know how he got there, he hadn’t even thought to make the trip, but Jim found himself parked a few doors down from Sarah’s parent house. He wasn’t sure what he would do if he saw Sarah, she’d made it clear she didn’t want to be associated with him as a Disruptive Person. 
Only a few days ago Jim had harboured some hope he’d be able to reconcile with Sarah after he found a way out of this mess. He’d since had resigned himself to the fact the his path forward was going to end up with him in Jail. 
Part of him wanted to see Sarah just one more time and remind her that thier bond as husband and wife was real and built over years or climbing the ladder as team. To convince her thier love wasn’t something to be thrown away and to beg her to stand with him. 
The more realistic part of Jim knew it was over, that part of his life was likely gone forever, he just wanted to see her one more time before he’d end up in jail.
Jim looked down at the console on the car, it was just after lunch now and Sarah wouldn’t likely come back from work for hours yet, was he really going to just sit here waiting Jim asked himself, probably, he thought.
There was a quiet knock on the passengers side window. Adrenaline rushed through Jim’s body, had he been found by the Police or the media. The car’s tinting was turned all the way up and it wasn’t registered to him, so that couldn’t be it. 
The knock came again more insistent this time. Jim cracked the window open without disengaging the tinting and asked “Can I help you?” trying hard to avoid being recognised by the man standing outside.
The man said calmly “No Jim, but I can help you.”
Hearing his name Jim went cold, it must be media, but how they’d tracked him down he didn’t know. Before Jim had the chance to respond the man spoke again “Open the door Jim, we need to talk and we’ll both get noticed if I stand out here any longer, oh and don’t even thing of driving off” the point was made as a gun barrel was poked through the opening in the window and pointed directly at Jim.
He had been thinking about just flooring the accelerator, but he’d have to take the car out of park mode and he didn’t think he was fast enough to beat a bullet, so he unlocked the door.
The man opened the door and sat in the car with a smooth fluidity that matched his tall wiry frame, Jim could tell he was someone not be messed with. He kept the pistol in his hand, but placed it in his lap not exactly point at Jim, it was close enough to make the point that Jim was not out of danger.
Jim asked “Who are you?”
The man answered “First things first Jim, lets go for a drive. I was waiting for you to come here and if I can work you were coming here, so can anyone else, so let’s go now” He waved forward with the pistol as if to emphasise the point.
Jim pulled out and drove past Sarah’s parent’s house without even looking at it, his mind was solely focussed on not getting shot.
Jim asked “Where are we going”
The man answered “Nowhere in particular, just get on the ring road and drive around the city for a bit, it will give us time to talk.”
Jim did as he was instructed to do, he started to selected a random destination on the other side of the city when the waved him off “No need for auto pilot today, just keep it in manual mode thanks”
Jim did as he was instructed and kept his hands on the steering wheel and drove the car, something he wasn’t really used to doing for more than a few minutes at a time, he felt awkward and more than a bit nervous making his was through traffic himself.
 The man spoke again “If you’re wondering who I am, you can call me Rook, I might be able to help you get out of the bind you’re in.”
Jim asked “Help me, so why are you pointing a gun at me?”
The man chuckled “Well Jim, you’ve had a rough couple of days and people in your situation can act irrationally, I’d prefer if you didn’t” He looked down at the gun “This keeps you nice and polite”
Jim had navigated onto the ring road now, he was warming up a bit to driving himself, his white knuckle grip on the steering wheel had relaxed a bit. Not too much though as Rook’s menacing gaze was surveying his every movement, the pistol held in his lap ever present, he was right, it kept Jim subdued quite well. He had to accept that he was trapped in the car with Rook for now, his plan was simple. Keep calm and when an opportunity to escape presented itself, take it.
After a few minutes of silence as Rook let Jim concentrate on driving, Rook spoke again “So Jim, quite an adventure you’re had the last few weeks, we took particular interest in you when you little outburst at Apex, quite the show.”
Jim was ashamed of that day, it was the day he’d ruined everything “I think everyone in the city has seen that” he said.
Rook agreed “Yes, I’ve seen it many times, of the interesting things about the video was these so called Grey’s who released it. Do you know anything about them Jim?”
Jim shook his head “I’ve never heard of them before, despite what the News says, who the are they?”
Rook answered “Apparently they’re a group of disaffected people, mostly level 4 and 5’s, who hate the system and want to break it or something like that. A sentiment that might resonate with you right now huh?”
“I don’t want to break anything, but I’d like to find those people why did they choose my life to ruin” spat Jim.
“I’m sure you would. You know one of other the interesting things about that video is there’s no mention of who you were at lunch with, don’t you think that’s a bit odd?” Rook asked 
Here we go thought Jim, the real reason why we’re here, just an unscrupulous reporter of some sort pushing the limits to get a scoop, this guy wasn’t getting anything from Jim.
“No, it doesn’t matter, it was all me anyway” Jim said.
Rook smirked “Not sure why you’re covering for them, they dropped you like a rock as soon as the video hit didn’t they. Don’t worry about giving me a name, we already know who was at lunch with you.”
Jim just shrugged “Ok, so you know names, why are you in this car then?”
Rook didn’t answer, instead he said “Take the next exit please.” 
Jim didn’t really have a choice Rook’s eyes never left Jim and the gun never moved away. He took the exit, he knew where they were going now, to the Outer.
#
The next ten minutes were mostly silent as Jim took directions from Rook. They drove out of the affluent suburban sprawl of the Green and into the increasingly drab grey cityscape of the Outer. Jim grew up out here, but it had been more than twenty years since he’d ventured this far out, he wasn’t entirely comfortable going back. He’d worked all of his life to earn enough points to leave the level 4 and 5 grifters and no-hopers of the Outer behind for good, it felt like failure to be back on these streets.
Rook told Jim to pull into a small multilevel carpark next to one of the Outer’s garishly decorated shopping malls. ”Here we are, drive down to the bottom level”
Jim drove down the ramp into the dimly lit basement level of the carpark.
“Over there by the black van” said Rook.
Jim brought the car into the parking spot and as soon as he’d stopped Rook opened the door and got out without saying a word.
The sliding door of the black van opened and Rook got in, almost immediately followed by a a dark haired woman stepping out of the van and quickly getting into the car.
She closed the door and turned to Jim and smiled a cat like smile, it wasn’t warm or comforting, Jim felt a lot like prey being sized up. At least she wasn’t holding a gun, but that didn’t make Jim feel any safer.
“Hello Jim, you’ve been a hard person to track down” She said.
Who was this new person sitting in his car uninvited Jim thought, he simply said “And you are?”
She raised her eyebrows “I’m Vex, nice to meet you Jim”
“Hello Vex, I’ve been forced to drive here staring down the barrel of a gun, maybe get to the point of this little trip” Jim was getting frustrated in being handled like he didn’t have any say on what was going on.
Vex smiled that cold smile again and said “Jim, I can understand that, and I know you’ve been through the wringer in the last few days, so I’ll get right to it” She looked around as if this someone might be watching them, satisfied they were alone down here in the basement carpark, she continued “Jim, I’m guessing right about now you got a lot of questions and want some answers?”
“Sure” said Jim, not committing to anything.
“Good, what if were to tell you that the video that put you here in this car today wasn’t released by the organisation called the Greys. Instead what if I were to tell you that it was released by Nova Corp themselves?” Vex Asked.
Jim shook his head, that just wasn’t possible, he responded “How could you possibly know that? There’s absolutely no reason Nova Corp would do that”
Vex looked directly into Jim’s eyes and held his gaze “I can know that because we are the Greys and we didn’t release the video, as for Nova Corp, we’ve got some theories”
Jim was shocked, this person sitting in the car was one of the so-called Greys, the group who Jim had vowed to find and exact his revenge on. She was calmly sitting in the seat next to him denying it all. Jim knew he was in danger, but his anger was rising.
Vex saw it, “Yes Jim, get angry, but at the right people. Lashing out at me will only get you shot and dumped in the Floodway. “ She pointed over her shoulder to the van, the door was still open and Rook was sitting watching them, his gun pointed directly at Jim.
Jim shifted in his seat, he was angry but had to hold it in, he had no doubt they’d follow through with thier threat. He needed more information and he asked “Ok, suppose that’s true, can you prove it?”
Vex pulled out a small tablet from inside her jacket and opened up the screen to show Jim a Video. 
Jim watched and immediately could see the video was a feed from the security system at the Apex restaurant, he could see the staff moving around setting up tables in the empty restaurant.
He asked Vex “What am I looking for here, so far all you’re showing me is a empty restaurant”
Vex answered simply “Keep watching, were getting to the good part”
The video continued and Jim could see the table he’d been sitting at when he had lunch there a few weeks ago now. Then he saw it, Rob Hughes, the Nova corp executive who’d invited him out that fateful day, came into view and stood at the very same booth they’d be in for thier lunch. Rob took something out of his pocket and spent a few seconds placing it in the plants that were tastefully placed on the dividers between the booths. Satisfied with whatever he’d placed, he sat with his back to it and beckoned one of the waitstaff over. It was the same waitress that had  red wine over Jim. 
Rob had a good conversation with her, he could see Rob pointing to the empty seat across from him, he picked up an empty glass and then acted out spiling it over the table. It dawned on Jim what was going on just as Vex fast forwarded the video, scrubbing through a good 10 minutes by look of the time-code.
Vex slowed the video down and Jim saw himself walk into view and saw Rob and himself shake hands enthusiastically before both taking a seat in the booth. The video stopped and froze on Jim and Rob sitting here at the start of what would be the beginning of the end of Jim’s life as he knew it.
Jim sat frozen in his seat in the car mirroring the video, he was trying to process what he saw and what it all meant.
Vex looked intently at Jim gauging his reaction, after moment she spoke “That proof enough?”
Jim was still unable to to put it all together in one coherent timeline in his mind, all of his assumptions of what had happened to him over the last few days had been ripped away and scattered to the winds, literally nothing he thought was fact was anymore.
Vex nodded as she could Jim processing what it all meant and put the tablet away.
“Jim, they set you up, this man that you know as Rob, planted the camera, set up the waitress, got you drunk and then led you down the path to your own fall.” Vex said matter of factly.
Jim shook his head to clear it, he felt groggy like he’d been punched. “I don’t understand, why would he do that? Why would Rob and Nova do this?”
“Well, we have our theories on that, but we do know they likely targeted you well before the lunch, perhaps even months before. You’re not the first person to be caught up with these people” Vex said.
Jim was shocked “What do you mean: months?”
Vex put up her hands in mock submission “Whoa Jim, I don’t have all the answers. What I really want to know is are you willing to help us get them and bring these guys down?”
Jim didn’t hesitate, he badly wanted to know who these people where and why they’d targeted him, and most of all he wanted to know if his disappearing friend Shane was involved. “Yes, fuck these people, fuck them completely”
Vex smiled, she got what she wanted.
“Good Jim, we’ve got some things to take care of before we start as you said: fucking them completely. Rook is going to take you to a safe place for now, sit tight there for a bit and we’ll speak again.”
Jim nodded, he was still reeling from all he’d learned. 
Vex got out of the car and jumped into the van to be replaced by Rook in the passenger seat, this time there was no gun in his hands. 
The dirty black van backed out of the car spot next to them, Jim watched in the car’s mirrors as it drove up the ramp and out of the basement, leaving Rook and Jim sitting alone in the car again. Both inside the car and the carpark outside were silent giving Jim a brief moment of solace.
Rook spoke up, his demeanour total changed from the trip there “Let’s get out of here Jim, we’ve got a bit of a drive ahead of us”
Jim pulled out of the car space and drove out of the basement as if auto pilot himself. His mind was still churning, but in the turmoil of his thoughts there was a growing resolve to fight back now against these people who had torn his life apart. Rook gave him directions, but he didn’t care where they were going now.







CHAPTER 14

THE SCAR (JIM 7)

Jim drove Rook through the city mostly in silence, only the occasional direction from Rook broke the quiet inside the car. The silences gave Jim the time to examine his situation. He wasn’t sure he was safe with these people, he’d need more proof of thier claim to be the so-called Greys and thier other revelations about his former life as a corporate executive. He resolved to be alert for an escape route in case he needed it.
Jim still couldn’t quite understand why Nova Corp would have set him up like this, he was just one of millions of trying to climb his way up the citizenship ladder and secure a better future. Sure, he cut some corners and bent the rules when he could, but nothing anyone else wouldn’t have done, so why did they choose him? He needed answers, but all he’d got in the last few days were more questions.
They wound thier way through the city for the next half hour or so skirting the blurred line between the Outer and the Green, never venturing too far out. They didn’t drive in a straight line, Rook had Jim circle back a few times just in case someone might have picked up thier trail, but no one had, the car wasn’t connected to Jim in any way.
Eventually Rook told Jim to pull over into an empty side street. “This will do, we’ll leave this car here” he said.
Jim pulled over, Rook immediately pulled out a what looked like a battery unit, it was about the size of an old brick but wrapped in black tape, there was a long red cable coiled around it. Jim didn’t see him bring that into the car, he must have got it in the van when they stopped to speak to Vex. Without asking Jim to move, Rook leaned over the centre console and started fumbling around with the plug end of of the cable attached to the battery. Jim moved his legs out of the way and said “Whoa, what are you doing, what is that?”
Rook was looking for something under the console “There’s a diagnostics port somewhere under the steering wheel, I need to plug this into… dont just sit there it’s easier for you to do it”
“What are you doing?” Jim asked again.
“We’re leaving the car here, but we need to clean this system first, this will wipe the car’s memory unit” said Rook.
Jim understood, he felt around under the steering wheel and almost immediately found it “Here it is” he said to Rook, who passed him the plug.
Once it was plugged in securely, Rook pressed the only switch on the box, the centre console and the dash immediately stuttered and went blank, a faint smell of burning plastic and electronics started to seep into the cabin.
“Should it do that?”Jim asked
“Nothing wipes a system like a massive burst of electricity, this little booster will fry just about any circuit” said rook as reached under the steering wheel and unplugged the cable.
The smell of burning was growing stronger by the second, Jim was looked across at Rook, who raised his eyebrows at the tendrils of smoke now starting to seep out from under the dashboard. “Of course too much juice and you can set off a chain reaction, we might want to get out. Now”
Jim didn’t need to be asked twice as both of them jumped out of the car that was rapidly filling with smoke. 
The black van that was parked in the basement garage pulled up next to Jim and Rook, the side door shooting open before it had stopped. Rook jumped in without hesitation, Jim paused which elicited a rebuke from Rook “Fucking get in, we have to go!”
Jim jumped in and before his feet even hit the floor of the van it was darting forward making him stumble backwards into Rook. There was no sign of Vex in the otherwise empty rear of the van. He straightened up in time to look back out through the rear window as the van sped off, he could see flames curling up the side of the Grant’s car from the battery pack underneath. 
Very soon it would be engulfed in flame, a fire that like all battery fires couldn’t be put out. He felt a bit guilty seeing the car burning like that in the disused side street. He knew the Grant’s well and he was genuinely sorry for firstly stealing the car and then getting it destroyed like that. 
Rook was watching it burn just Jim was, they turned around a corner and lost sight of it forever. He had a satisfied smile on his face, looking at him, Jim suddenly knew burning the car to the ground was the result Rook wanted, the thought didn’t fill Jim with much comfort, had he just made his situation worse?
#
The van weaved another circuitous route through the city, however this time with every turn and circle back Jim could see they were steadily moving further away from the glittering city centre. They had long since left the Green and were making thier way through the Outer, from what Jim could see they would end up hitting the city’s edge soon.
He asked Rook “Where are we going?”
Rook, who was leaning back against the van’s side sitting, like Jim, on one of the two uncomfortable fold down benches running down the sides of the van, didn’t bothering opening his eyes “We’re going to a safe house, somewhere you can stay whilst we work out your next move”
“We work out my next move? not sure I agreed to that” Jim said.
“I doesn’t matter what you think, we saved your arse and we get a say in what you do next… or we can just let you out here and you’re on your own”.
Jim actually didn’t want that, so stayed silent, Rook kept his eyes closed and didn’t elaborate further.
Eventually the van pulled over, Jim and Rook got out onto a largely deserted street, there were no cars parked, no people walking, most of the shops were boarded up, those that weren’t boarded up certainly didn’t look open. A smell of chemicals and rot wafted into Jim’s nose “what is that awful smell?” he said aloud.
Rook scrunching up his face in disgust at the same smell said “Get used to it, we’re only a few blocks from the Scar, lets get inside, it’s better in there.” as he walked into one of the dilapidated townhouses that lined the streets.
Jim of course knew what the Scar was, it was a vast mile wide floodplain that separated the city from the factories of the Rust Belt. It was a reminder of the consequences of war.
The Scar was a toxic floodplain scouring a wide trench across the landscape from north to south for hundreds of miles. The result of the war of Reclamation, a global total war that was waged with both conventional and environmental weapons. The attack that created the Scar released billions of litres of water and toxic waste in one of the largest natural disasters ever seen, it changed the shape of the land and the course of civilization.
Citizens learnt about it in grade school, but the vast majority never ventured close enough to smell it. Jim was one of those, even though he grew up in the Outer, going out to the Scar was just not something people ever wanted to do, too many urban myths of deadly toxic fogs killing people living close to the scar.
He followed Rook inside and they walked straight through the townhouse into the small backyard, and then straight through a gate at the back of the yard into the next house townhouse behind it. They went up the narrow stairs to the first floor and into a small bedroom, it was sparsely finished and as dour as Jim might have expected it to be. 
Jim was about to ask if this was his room when Rook put his finger to his lips to be silent. He quietly ran his hands over the wall and with a small push and a click the wall opened up a completely hidden door to the townhouse next door. Rook and Jim stepped through, this room was the opposite of the sparsely furnished room they’d just left.
It was much larger as the internal walls had been removed creating an open plan room. At one end the windows to the street had been bricked over, to Jim’s professional eye he estimated it had been done at least 50 years ago, judging by the old bricks used. The room itself was furnished with bunk beds, a couple of tables, two old couches and a kitchenette along one wall. Jim thought it could house at least a dozen people, but today it was empty.
Rook waved expansively at the room and said “Welcome to you new home, at least for a little while” He could see Jim was unconvinced.
“If you’re worried about being close to the Scar, don’t be, the deadly fog stories are old wives tales, at worst it smells for a day or two, but being in here keeps most of the smell out.”
Jim wasn’t entirely convinced, the truth seemed to be a variable concept to Rook.
Rook continued “I’m not staying, I’ve got places to be, someone will be along soon enough, there’s supplies in the kitchen, the bathroom is downstairs and whatever you do, do not leave this building.” 
“How long until someone else gets here?” asked Jim
“I don’t know, at some point I guess. Anyway, I’m off, remember don’t leave, a safe house is only safe if you stay in it” with that, Rook disappeared down the stairs leaving Jim alone. 
Jim sat on one of the couches and contemplated his situation, he was alone in a safe house as far out of the city as he’d ever been, beholden to the Greys for his safety, a wanted fugitive on the run. Somehow despite all this he felt like he had taken a little bit of control back and bought himself some time to develop options. He sank back into the couch, just then he realised higher bone-tired he was. Within minutes he was fast asleep.
#
Jim woke cold and stiff on the couch to a quiet and darkened room, he didn’t know how long he’d been asleep, but judging by his his stiff neck it had to have been a few hours at least. He sat forward groggily and looked around the room he’d been left alone in, his blood ran cold as he saw someone sitting at one of the tables quietly starring it him. That woke him up quickly.
The figure was obscured by the darkness of the room, it didn’t move, was Jim dreaming it?
A voice broke the trance “So, you’re our new quest I take it?” It was a female voice, but not Vex. She got up and walked over to the light switches and flipped them on.
“I thought I’d let you nap for a bit, seems like you needed it” she said as the lights illuminated a tall and muscly woman.
Jim had questions “Who are you, how long have you been sitting there?”
She didn’t answer, instead went over to the kitchenette and stirred a big pot that was on the stove. It was at that point Jim registered the smell of the cooking, he was hungry, the aroma of the cooking got his stomach rumbling. It was also at that point he realised none of that was there when he came in, this person must have come in and prepared the stew whilst Jim was asleep. He shook his head and admonished himself, that could have been a very costly mistake.
“Hungry” She asked as she ladled what looked like stew into two mismatched bowls and walked them over to one of the tables
Jim was very hungry and without a word joined her at the table.
“Sorry it’s not much, but out here the best we can get is the Government minimum protein, so tonight and every night in fact, we’ve got VatSoy, supposedly chicken flavour. Don’t worry I’ve put as many spices in there as I can to mask the taste” She said and started to tuck into the stew. 
Jim sniffed at the plate, it seemed ok, he’d never eaten VatSoy a few times in his life when he was young and ran out or credits for the month. He tentatively took a spoonful of the stew, it had a spicey yet vaguely chemical flavour, he didn’t detect any chicken there, but his stomach overruled his head and he ate it.
“Seems like it does the job” she said as she watching Jim wolf down a few spoonfuls.
For Jim it wasn’t so much the taste, it was the warmth and the sensation of it filling his stomach, VatSoy was designed to feel nice on the palate and fill you up cheaply. Jim asked “So, who are you? Rook didn’t tell me who was going to meet me here.”
“Rook’s not a big one for words is he, you can call me Corra, I’m what you might call the Manager here, everything that goes on in here, who comes and goes, who gets to stay.” she said pointedly looking at Jim.
“So I get to thank you letting me stay here?” Jim asked.
“Temporarily, until we work out what to do with you” Corra said.
Again with the royal “we” deciding what to do with me thought Jim, it didn’t sound any better from Corra as it did from Vex or Rook.
“Do you have any ideas what that might be?” Jim said probing for more information.
“I don’t know, I’d say you’ll have to lay low for a few weeks, if not months, before the heat comes off your story. The reality is that the rest of your life will be off the grid now, we’ll find something for you to do, but that’s just me guessing, it’s up to the boss really” said Corra.
Hiding for months was not what something Jim was interested in doing, what he really wanted was to clear his name and get answers about Nova Corp and he couldn’t do that rotting away in this Safehouse.
“You mean I’ll have to stay here for months, when do I get payback on those pricks at Nova? Isn’t that what you people do?” Jim was getting agitated at the thought of staying here indefinitely.
Corra not noticing or caring Jim was raising his voice said calmly “No, you’re not staying here for more than a few days, a week tops. You’ll have to keep moving around to be sure no one is tracking you.”
“And what about Nova Corp?” asked Jim.
“Easy there, we’re not looking to get into a fight with a player as big as Nova just now, we need to build up to that kind of action.” Corra answered as she finished off the stew in her bowl and got up to take her plate back to the kitchen.
This was not the path Jim was expecting to take after his conversation with Vex, he thought the Greys took action, but it seemed they just sneaked around in the shadows. 
Jim changed tack “Rook said I shouldn’t leave, is the place being watched or something?”
“We can’t rule that out, but probably not, no one wants to come out here. This is technically not even in the Metro Police’s jurisdiction, there are so few people out here.” Corra said over her shoulder as she washed the bowl.
“So I can leave if I want to” it was more of a statement than a question.
Corra stopped and turned around to look at Jim directly and said “Jim, like it or not you’re ours now, we’ve taken you in and it was not without some serious risk to our organisation. If it was me I’d be very grateful and wait for them to come up with a plan for you, Vex is not a person to cross. Let’s just say the Scar holds more than a few skeletons.”
Jim was less and less happy being the Grey’s new plaything, he wasn’t going to wait around in the safe house for them to tell what he could and couldn’t do.
“Fair point, I’m going to hit the bed for real this time, and one I should use?” he asked.
Corra waved at the bunk beds at the other end of the room “Any of them, you’re our only guest tonight.”
Jim grabbed a bunk furthest away from Corra in the kitchen and got in the bed, it was old but at least it was clean. Jim didn’t go to sleep immediately, he lay there thinking though his options, soon enough he’d made up his mind and drifted into a deep sleep, satisfied he knew what he needed to do when he woke up.
#
He’d been awake for at least an hour now, there were no windows in the room so he couldn’t tell what time is actually was. He felt rested, or at least as much as he could expected to be since he fled his house. He was also apprehensive, he was going to leave the safe house today one way or the other. 
He didn’t want to be anyone’s plaything and he wasn’t prepared to wait around for these people to decide his fate, he was going to take his future into his own hands. Slowly and quietly he looked around the room, he looked past the bunk beds where he was into the open area where the tables and lounges were, it was dark and empty.
He looked to the kitchenette all the way at the other end of the room, there was nothing cooking there was no sign of Corra. Jim got up, being careful to avoid making any noise he walked to the top of the stairs that went down to the ground floor. He was causally looking around the room as if he was trying to find his way in an unfamiliar house, but in reality he was just looking for cameras. He couldn see any obvious ones though. He stopped and listened intently at the top of the stairs, he didn’t hear any sounds coming up from downstairs and as stealthily as he could he descended.
Downstairs all the walls seemed to be intact, the bottom of the staircase led into a small hallway dimly lit by sunlight bleeding in around the edges of the window on what Jim assumed was the back door. The windows downstairs hadn’t been bricked up, merely painted over. Jim snuck over to the door and tried the handle, it was locked, it couldn’t be that easy could it thought Jim.
He saw the bathroom door was open just a few steps away and he went inside to avoid being seen trying to open the door.
When Jim left the bathroom a few minutes later Corra was waiting in the corridor for him with a smile, it wasn’t exactly friendly, she said “Morning Jim, no need to sneak around on my behalf, I was already awake. Now let’s grab some breakfast upstairs there’s some people coming in soon to work on your next move” she motioned for Jim to go back up the stairway.
This was the moment thought Jim, more people were coming and he might not get the chance again. He stepped aside as if going around Corra to go up the stairs, crucially it put her in between him and the open door to the bathroom. Jim stepped next to Corra and shoved her, as hard as he could into the bathroom. She was caught totally unprepared for the shove and barrelled into the bathroom without any control smashing into the wall at the back of the room and falling heavily on the tile floor.
Jim slammed the door shut behind her, he deliberately stood back and kicked the door handle, his foot bounced off. He lined up another kick and the handle snapped off the door with a satisfying crack. He grabbed the spindle that was exposed and pulled it out so Corra couldn’t open the door.
Corra was banging on the door now yelling at Jim “Let me out, Jim don’t do this!”
Jim turned his attention to the door with his adrenalin pumping he launched a two footed kick to the door to get it open. It was stronger than he’d anticipated and he just bounced off. Jumping straight up he kicked at the door, once, twice and a third time, still the door didn’t budge.
Corra was doing the same, the banging on the bathroom door was now a rhythmic beat as she tired to kick the door open from the inside. Jim could she she’d beat him to the punch, he needed another option. He looked around and saw the broken door handle on the floor, quickly he picked it up and threw it as hard as he could into the window into the door. The glass shattered, the gaping hole let the early morning sunlight stream in.
The smashing of the glass stopped Corra’s kicking, she yelled from the other side of the door to Jim “Jim, think about what you’re doing, if you leave you’ll be on your own, we won;t take you back, Vex will hunt you down, Jim, are you there?”
Jim didn’t answer, Corra resumed kicking the door, the frame cracked as Corra, it would only be a few more kicks and she’s be out. Jim had to move now.
He pushed the biggest of the broke shards of glass out of the frame and climbed through to the small backyard. He clambered over the side fence as he heard the door inside burst open.
Jim didn’t know where he was going, but he hurled him self over three more side fences until he came landed in a laneway. He sprinted into the street and turned away from the townhouse not looking back to see if he was being followed, just wanting to put distance between him and the safe house.
He saw another lane way and ducked into it, Jim was panting hard now as the adrenalin emptied out of his system. He needed a place to recover, the laneway went all the way across to another street, he sprinted for it and quickly turned the corner. This street was a bit different, the town houses it empty shops. He couldn’t run anymore, his legs were like lead and he was seeing little stars in the corner of his eyes. He saw the boards on one of the shops was loose so he squeezed his was in behind it inside, pulling it close after him. 
The inside of the shop was just an empty space, the only furnishing was the dust on the floor. His legs totally spent, Jim slid down against the wall in a heap, laying on the dusty floor listening for any sing of pursuit. 
After a moment, he shifted slightly a sharp pain stabbed in his leg and he looked down to see his pants red with blood. Gingerly he examined himself, there was a slash in pants was oozing out blood. He must have cut himself climbing through the window. Jim ripped the cut in his pants open to see just how badly he was cut, it wasn’t too deep and had started to close up already, but lying on the ground as he was it certainly wasn’t clean. 
He slowly got up to explore the shop and see if he could get some water to clean the cut up a bit, the sound of a car stopped him dead. This area was abandoned so the only car the could be out there was the Grey’s looking for him. It drove past without stopping and Jim took in a deep breath.
He’d have to patient and methodical to get out the area, but he was now even more determined to get back to territory he was familiar with, that would give him at least an even chance of survival. That meant getting back into the heart of the Outer where he grew up and disappearing into the crowd.
#
Jim stayed in the old shop for a few hours, what looked like the same car drove up and down the street periodically, at least as far as Jim could tell from peeking at it through a crack in the boards covering the shop windows. However, it hadn’t been up or down the street for a good while now. He’d managed to find an old sink in the back of the shop with some running water and cleaned out the cut in his thigh as best he could. It should probably have some stitches, but being clean was all he could do for now. He’d have to get some antiseptics on it soon though.
Jim knew he couldn’t stay in the shop forever, he really needed to put some distance between him and the Greys before any more came in to help search for him. Jim just wasn’t in the mood to be cautious and wait a few more hours for night to fall before getting out of there, the smell coming in off the Scar was getting worse and he wasn’t sure it was all harmless.
When he scouted the empty shop he saw the back door opened on to a small car park out the back, it was as good a place as any to start. Jim paused at the door mustering up the courage to make the move and potential risk being seen in the daytime. 
He crept out of the shop into the little carpark, he could see the fog was deepening, along with the stench of chemical rot. Testing his leg he jogged down the small back street to the main road, it seemed ok for now.
The street was empty, Jim turned against the direction of the incoming foul smelling fog and jogged out onto the street.
The next hour was a tense stop and start jog, he periodically stopped in side alleys and deep door alcoves to check if he had been seen. A couple of times he heard cars but none closer than a few blocks away, the fog made them sound like the were right next to him though.
The fog cleared the further he went disappearing altogether along with the dilapidation of the streetscape. Eventually he saw some signs of life as shops were no longer abandoned and houses were no longer boarded up. Old cars and truck now frequented the streets as humanity pushed up against the abandonment and unlivable spaces of the Scar’s fog zone.
Jim was dirty and sweaty and his pants were ripped and bloody, out here on the fringes of the Outer he didn’t look too far out of place, just another Level 3 down on his luck. His hands went to his belt buckle where he’d taped the two untraceable credit sticks with tape he stole from the Grant’s basement, they were still there thankfully.
He ducked into the first convenience store he came across, it was more of a general store and had a bit of everything, but no clothes. The garish shopping centres where Level 4 and 5 citizens could spend thier government mandated credits were still some distance down the road in the Outer proper.
Jim grabbed a new cap to replace the one he’d left behind in the safe house and went to the front counter, the clerk didn’t react to his state of dirtiness.
“Hey man, you don’t have any pants here do you ”Jim asked, trying to slip into an Outer accent.
The clerk looked at for a second before answering, the accent clearly not helping Jim blend in. “No, sorry, no pants here, just the cap today?”
Jim pressed “Nothing out the back? I fell over and ripped them”
“Sorry, we don’t sell pants, just the cap?” he asked again.
Jim had no choice but to play his hand here, he pulled out one of the credit sticks and slapped it onto the counter “I’m not asking if the shop stocks them, I’m asking if you have any you want to sell to me.”
The clerk looked at the stick, he knew what it was and Jim could see the greed spark in his eyes. 
 “If that’s what I think it is I might have something for you, wait here” He left the counter and went out the back, Jim waited for either the clerk to come back of sirens from the metro police turning up to arrest him.
It was the clerk who came back, hold a pair of black pants, they were clearly store uniform. “I’ve got these, they should fit you, going to cost you 500 credits.”
500 credits thought Jim, they should only cost 50 credits or so. “500? Come on man, that’s steep.”
“Yeah well if that credit stick is what I think it is, 50 for the pants and 450 not to call the police. Deal or not?” he snapped back.
Jim didn’t really have a choice. “Throw the cap in and we’re good.”
“Sure, whatever.” the clerk said as he pulled out an old credit transfer terminal from the under the bench. Whilst technically not illegal, you wouldn’t want to be caught with one. That would be a signal to the Metro police that you might be laundering credits, and they did not like the idea of not knowing were every credit was being used. It was clear that the shop’s register was not going to be used for this transaction
The clerk keyed in 500 credits and Jim tapped his stick onto it, a quiet beep and a green light showing the credits were now sitting on the terminal. The clerk then tapped a similar stick taking the credits, there would no trace of them coming from Jim. 
“Want a balance?” He asked.
No fucking way thought Jim, you’re not finding out how much I’ve got on there, he simply said. “All good man, It’s probably tapped out after that. Got a place to change”
The clerk pointed over to the office door without saying a word. Jim went in and changed as quickly as he could, he had the feeling the clerk wanted more of his credits, perhaps the whole stick in fact. He donned the new cap and left the store walking away briskly so the Clerk would get any ideas.
Jim walked the streets deeper into the heart of the Outer and felt safer, he was less conspicuous and in familiar territory, it hadn’t really change in the past twenty or so years since he left. He knew the credit stick worked and he knew he could find a place to stay that didn’t ask questions. For the first time since Nova Corp had released the footage from the Apex restaurant, Jim was in control.










CHAPTER 15

NOVA CORP (SHANE 1)

Shane sat in his office reviewing papers on his ornate dark wooden desk. The office was not only huge, as big as ten or so normal offices would be, it was also beautifully appointed in the way that real old world money always did it. Dark wood lined walls, tasteful plush carpet, antique pieces of furniture, a vase with freshly cut flowers on a copper pot stand. Nothing was extravagant or garish, all the pieces of furniture and artwork were exactly where they needed to be, not too much or too little. That each piece was worth more than most people would ever earn in a lifetime was just a minor detail.
The office was silent, outside the large picture window, a blue sky could be glimpsed through the canopy of the old trees, casting dappled shadows over the immaculately maintained gardens and pathways beneath. 
Inside only the low murmur of his terminal playing a news feed was making a sound, the anchor on screen introduced a new story “…now for an update on the case of missing former Level 8 executive, Jim Dalton…”
Shane stopped reading and looked up at the mention of Jim’s name, he keyed the volume on the terminal so he could hear it better.
“…for an update we’ll cross over to Kira Maddox who’s been following the story for us since the video of the incident at the exclusive Level 8 only Apex restaurant was released by the so-called Grey movement, Kira.”
Kira was in the studio standing in front of a huge digital display wall silently playing highlights of Jim’s story. “Thanks Lina, right now Jim Dalton is still unaccounted for, after managing to evade arrest by a joint Metro Police and CEB operation at his house, there have been no signs of Mr Dalton for going on four days now.” Video of the Police breaking down the front door of Jim’s house was showing on the digital wall behind her.
“We now have some facts that paint a very concerning picture of a potentially very dangerous individual. For example, we now know that at the same time the Police were entering his house, Mr Dalton stole a car from his neighbours which was subsequently found completely burnt out some twenty-four hours later across the other side of the city. Forensics analysts from the Metro Police tell me it was a deliberate battery cell overload and question how a business executive would know how to do that without some sort of help.” Video of the Grant’s burnt-out car was now showing on the screen.
She continued “In breaking new just released today, the Metro Police tell me they discovered a very high tech chip modification on Mr Dalton‘s TV in his house, one that allowed access to citizenship restricted material.”
Shane involuntarily uttered the word “Shit” under his breath.
The News story went on, Lina the anchor now asking questions “That’s a very interesting development indeed Kira, what do you think that means?”
“Lina, when you add up how Mr Dalton was able to escape arrest by highly trained officers from both the Metro Police and the CEB, the fact he was able to set off the battery overload and now the revelation that he had highly sophisticated contraband chips in his TV at home, it paints a worrying picture of a dangerous and well connected person.”
“It certainly does, are the Police any closer to finding Mr Dalton?”
“No Lina, they are telling me privately that Mr Dalton has completely disappeared, however they are getting leads from citizens all over the city claiming to have seen him, some even from as far out as the Scar’s fog zone if you can believe that. They tell me there are methodically checking each lead and are confident they will track Mr Dalton down quickly”
“We all hope so, I know I’ll feel better once he’s safe and in custody” said Lina.
Shane tapped the keyboard to mute the sound, he sat silently contemplating the the update about Jim.
There was a knock on the office door, Jim looked up to see Rob Hughes standing in the doorway. “Hi sir, I’m, here for our 10am project briefing.”
“Yes, come in, good timing Rob. First lets grab some coffee” Shane said as he gestured to the antique sideboard loaded with fresh fruit, pastries and a beautifully ornate copper coffee machine.
#
Rob and Shane each sat on one of the two beautifully upholstered lounges in the centre of the room, the remains of their morning pastries and half full porcelain coffee cups on the low table between them. 
Shane was reclining on his couch savouring the last bite of his pastry, Rob wasn’t feeling so relaxed, he’d savoured the exquisite coffee and pastry, but he knew some hard questions were coming.
Shane sat forward and spoke “It’s always nice to stop and enjoy the little things in life Rob, there’s just such a primal pleasure to a simple moment of satisfaction, a hot coffee and fresh pastry is as good as any drug, don’t you think?”
Rob answered “Yes sir, I’m not going to disagree with that”
“No, I’m sure you’re not. Now what have you got for me?”
Rob picked up the paper files he’d brought in with him and shuffled through the files looking for one in particular.
“I thought in light of the news reports this morning we’d start with that project?”
Shane waved Rob off “No, we’ll keep that one for last this morning”
Rob put the file down on the coffee table and opened another file “Let just go in order then” Shane nodded in agreement.
Rob continued “Project 26, we’re in the third phase of that now, but I don’t think it has legs. The subject is displaying a lack of motivation to move forward.” 
Shane held out his hand and Rob passed the file over to him. He quietly flipped through the pages for a few moments, then said “Fifty-fifty on this one, apparently the marital bond is not as strong as we though it was here. Give it one more push, if that doesn’t work, just cut  the subject loose.”
Rob nodded “Will do, next is project 27, unfortunately it’s failed, we got outplayed by a rival company in the last phase.”
Shane shook his head and took a deep sigh “Yes, Pinnacle Analytics got the jump on what we were doing there, I’m going to have settle my wager with Lucien now, such a smug little prick that one.”
Robb nodded “Yes Sir, we still don’t know how they got hold of the data to block our moves, but we’re working on it.”
“You probably won’t find it, Pinnacle is better at data hacking than anyone, but keep trying to see where we leaked though, would be good to plug the hole.” said Shane.
“Next project is number 23, as you recommended we’ve burned the project, the subject and associates have been terminated and all records expunged.” 
Shane nodded, “Good, I know it’s distasteful, but it was necessary. I want a review on all the testing we have for the subject and a reason why it went off the rails so badly by at our next meeting.”
Rob paled slightly and said “Yes sir” he picked up the file he’d placed on the coffee table at the start of the meeting “Now we get to project 29 Sir, lots of news on that one”
Shane sat forward and looked intently as Rob “Yes, I saw the latest bulletin, please explain how we’ve fucking lost him?”
Rob fumbled with the file momentarily, but quickly regained his composure “Sir, you’re correct that we did loose him, but it was for less than 48 hours, however he’s back in our sights now. I received and update just before I came in here that one of our scouts out near the Scar saw him and was able to get a tracker on him.”
Shane smiled slightly “That’s good news, get in contact with him and push the project forward as planned”
“Yes sir, already in motion”
Shane asked “Can we account for the missing 48 hours?”
“No Sir we can’t, we believe the Greys took him off the streets and moved him around until just recently.”
“Ok, there’s some work to here, we need to find out where he went and what he did with these Greys, it’s just not acceptable to have a subject missing for the best part of two days. Also I want to get us inside the Greys, the fact they are invisible to us is worrying. I need to know if any of the other Board companies are behind them.”
Shane stood up signalling an end to the meeting, Rob followed suit not missing the hint and retrieved all the files. They both walked over to the office door where Shane placed a hand on his shoulder in what anyone watching would have seen as a friendly gesture. He leaned in and said calmly and quietly, his hand still resting lightly on Rob’s shoulder “Rob, this project is feeling a lot like Project 23, I don’t want two projects crashing and burning so close to each other. Get control of this one or your position as Director of Special Projects might come to an end too, I don’t want to have to burn you along with it” His smile was warm and genuine despite the cold threat.
With that Shane patted Rob’s shoulder and gestured for him to leave, the meeting was over, Rob knew he was on borrowed time if he didn’t deliver.
#
Rob was back in his office on the 53rd floor of the Nova Corp headquarters, it was a thirty minute fast car drive from Shane’s palatial mansion in the hills to the north of the city where he actually ran Nova Corp. Rob didn’t have to worry about speeding, Nova took care of any tickets he might have been given, Shane made sure of that. 
Rob was sitting in his office thinking about the not so veiled threat Shane had dropped at the end of their meeting, he really needed to get Jim Dalton back on track and following the program Shane has mapped out for him years ago.
He pressed the call button on the phone on his desk “Grace, can you get me the special operations team in here asap.” without waiting for an answer he cut the line.
Minutes later three men were standing in his office, Like Rob they were all wearing expensive suits, but unlike Rob they didn’t look like they were born in the suits. Rather they looked like they resented wearing them and also resented being in the office.
Rob waited until the office door was shut behind them to address the men “Gentlemen, I’ve just been up the Hill to the big house and let me tell you the boss is not happy. We’ve got to get Dalton back on track now.”
He pointed at one of the men. “John, you need to find him and make contact, play it like you’re one of the Greys, we need him back on schedule and I need to know where he’s been for the last two days.”
The man simply nodded.
Rob pointed at the other two men “You two, when John gets some workable intel on the Greys, I need you to get inside and see who’s behind them. The boss wants to know if they are a front for any of the Board companies trying to fuck with us.”
One of the two men asked “If they’re not Board cut-outs, what then?”
“If they are actually independent, which I highly doubt, then we’ll turn them to work for us.”
Rob deliberately looked at each man in turn “I don’t need to tell you just how important it is we get results and get them fast. If we have another project fail we’ll all get burnt along with it, understood?”
All three men nodded at Rob “Ok, I want hourly updates, get on to it.”
With that the men left the office with out a backwards glance, Rob knew these men were absolutely professionals, if anyone could get them out of this mess, they could. Still he was worried, Jim Dalton had proved to me much smarter and resourceful than anyone anticipated and he’d already made Rob look stupid once, he wasn’t going to get a second chance.
#
In the hours that passed Rob had stayed in his office waiting for updates from his team. Getting the Dalton project back on track was quite literally the most important task he’d ever had, he needed laser focus to turn his fortunes around. 
His team on the ground were professionals and as instructed started dropping secured updates each hour, so far there was nothing of consequence, but Rob expected it would take some time to ramp up thier activity. 
In the meantime he needed to go back through all the data points to see what they’d missed about this subject Jim Dalton and how he was the second subject to get away from him in short order.
Nova Corp, through it’s various subsidiaries cast a wide net all the way from elementary and high school through to college and corporate testing to find candidates with the right mix of intelligence, independence, and resilience for thier special projects. Each time a citizen did any kind of test, Nova Corp scooped up the data, analysed it and used it for thier gain. At any one time they had a database of likely candidate for all kinds of jobs, actions and special projects.
Rob was looking through the raw data from Jim Dalton’s files to see if the appraisals team had made any errors or missed something. There was a knock at the door, it was Grace his executive assistant, she looked worried, had she picked up on the precarious position Rob was in? He wasn’t in the mood to discuss it one way or thew other?
“Grace, I don’t want to be disturbed today please” he told her.
“I know, Mr Hughes, but this is really important, I’ve just sent you a link to a video you need to watch” she said.
“I don;t have time for video’s today Grace, I’ll look at it later”
“Sorry Mr Hughes but it’s from Mr Dalton, it’s all over the news” 
Rob’s blood ran cold at the mention of Dalton, what new fuck-up had dropped in his lap from this project? He clicked on the link from Grace, it was from a well known gossip site, not the news. The sensational video title was “Dalton proclaims his innocence from unknown location”
Rob looked up and Grace was still standing there “Out” he yelled. He clicked the play button without bothering to see if Grace left or not.
The video opened on Jim sitting in a run down hotel room, the backdrop of peeling wall paint and the dim light making it look like Jim was back in a jail, he spoke.
“Hello, my name is Jim Dalton and… well I’m not sure what I want to say here… umm, first of all I’m not who the news makes me out to be, I’m no master criminal or anything like that. Sure I’m guilty of getting drunk and being rude to staff, which I know was wrong” the video must have been shot on a phone, for a second it went black as Jim inadvertently put his hand over the lense. 
The image cam back and Jim continued “Is that enough to ruin someones life over? I worked my way up from the Outer to Level 8 just like they say you can, but one mistake and it’s all gone. One bad day and the press are at your doorstep and the Police and the CEB are coming to arrest you. Is that fair?”
Jim looked around as if there was a sound off screen, not hearing anything further he spoke again “I’m not going to jail for something like that, did anyone ever ask who else was at lunch? Who invited me there and paid for all the wine? Who leaked the footage to the media? No the media just made me out to be some villain, just like you’ve seen before, I’m not, were they? I’m just a normal working man who is being made an example of so none of you ever step out line… to the media who hounded me out of my house, do your job and dig deeper.” The video went to black and ended.
Rob sat at his desk processing what he’d just seen, after a moment he yelled into the empty office “Fuck! Fuck! This fucking arsehole is going to get me killed” he slammed his hands down onto the desk so hard he felt pain shoot up his arms. This was the worst possible thing that could have happened. He needed to take stock.
The phone rang, it wasn’t routed through Grace’s desk as per normal, this was coming in direct, only one person could do that, Shane.
#
Rob broke out in a cold sweat, he couldn’t take the call, he just didn’t have an answer for Shane and he needed one desperately. Instead he almost bolted out of the office, as he rushed past Grace sitting at her desk and said “Tell him I’m in the bathroom”, Grace didn’t get the chance to answer as Rob was already gone.
He’d made his way to the executive bathroom, luckily it was empty, breathing a sight of relief he pulled out a mobile from his pocket and punched in a number, it was answered immediately “John, have you seen Dalton’s video?”
John without emotion “Yes Sir”
“And… any thoughts o how to play this?” Rob asked.
“It seems to me this could align well with our goals for the project, even speed up the timeline”
“Explain”
“Once I make contact, I’ll encourage more video’s, but I’ll steer him towards our goals and minimise any damage to us. We can build up a strong narrative to damage our competitors if we drop the right information into Dalton’s lap and encourage more videos”.
Rob was quiet and thought it over. Yes it could work, he’d never have thought of Dalton going public himself, he’d always planned for the media to do the work of using Dalton’s story to undermine the other Board Companies, but this could be much more powerful.
“Ok, do it, how close are you to making contact?” 
“Give me twenty-four hours, I’ve got a lead that I’m chasing down now”
“Ok keep me updated” Rob said and cut the line.
He looked at himself in the mirror, smoothed down his suit jacket and adjusted his tie, he was back in control, look like it he told himself.
Rob sauntered back to his office as if he didn’t have a worry in the world, he breezed past Grace without a word. He immediately dialled Shane’s direct number from his desk phone, Shane picked up in two rings, he didn’t speak.
Rob jumped straight in “Sorry Sir, I just stepped out of the office for a quick break, did you want an update?”
“Yes Rob, I want an update as to why Jim Dalton is now releasing videos onto the net?”
“That’s part of the project plan, I felt it would speed up our goals and be more authentic if Dalton was used directly instead of through media proxies” that was a stretch, but he’d put it out there now.
Silence for a moment, then “Rob, remind me again what the project goals are please?”
He wasn’t buying it though Rob, he needed to be careful this was a tightrope ”This was a phase one project, creating a sympathetic public figure and sow discord about the system.”
“And why are we doing that?”
Rob swallowed “I must admit Sir, I don’t have access to the full project goals, but I’m assuming we want to leverage this public pressure against one or more of the Board companies to our advantage.” He hoped he was correct.
“That’s sounds about right Rob, but bear in mind you don’t know what the end game is here, so before you go off on your own again, do me a favour and run it by me, ok?”
“Yes Sir.”
“This is a novel play with the videos, play it out for now, but know this, my finger is hovering over the burn button, so don’t let it get out of hand.” the line was disconnected.
Rob slumped back into his chair, he’d gone way out on a limb there, but it seemed to have worked. He now had some time to unscrew this mess, he buzzed Grace “Grace, can you get me our media director in here, tell him to cancel his plans for the day we’ve got some work to do.”


















CHAPTER 16

JIM AND NOVA (JIM 8)

Jim was sprawled on the sagging double bed in the small darkened hotel room that he was holed up in, half watching the News feed on the TV that was securely bolted to the wall. It hadn’t taken him long to find a hotel that would take his credit stick and ask no questions, he’d grown up in the Outer and knew where he needed to go, he didn’t want to go there, but he had no choice.
They called it the Reach and it wasn’t a place you went to unless you were desperate or degenerate. The Reach was a sprawling district on the far side of the Outer from the Scar, where the city butted up against the as yet unsettled mountains. It was a place where you could buy pretty much anything if you had the credits. The Metro Police mostly left it alone as long as the area as a whole stayed quiet and out of the news. It was a mixing pot of all levels, from those who had nowhere else to go, to the upper levels looking for some illicit thrills away from prying eyes.
It took the rest of the credits on one of his sticks to get a black market burner phone, the seller guaranteed it was untraceable, but Jim wasn’t taking any chances  and the phone remained powered off until he needed it again.
He knew it was a desperate move to upload the video, Jim reasoned that there was enough interest in his story the news might pick it up and just maybe his side of the story would get out there. So far nothing had hit the news yet.
He lay still on the bed, barely moving, physically and mentally exhausted, the weight of his current situation pressing him further into the sagging mattress.
 His last hope, the Greys turned out to be just another group of people who wanted to use him for thier own ends, he was done with that, from now on he resolved he’d only deal on his own terms. If he crashed and burned, he’d make them all hurt on the way down.
The flashing red alert banner on the TV caught Jim’s attention and roused him out of his dozing. He sat up and listened intently, the anchor was clearly excited at this news “We have a breaking news story, former Level 8 executive and wanted fugitive Jim Dalton has uploaded a video proclaiming his innocence from charges of assault, criminal damage, theft and arson from his three day crime spree and also denying any connection to dissident group the Greys. We’ll have a deep dive into the video and Dalton’s claims at the top of the hour, be sure to join us then” the channel moved back to it’s current show.
Jim lay back on the bed pleased his gamble had paid off, perhaps the tide of public opinion was going to turn for him. Looking at the clock on the TV he had about twenty minutes, plenty of time to get some supplies before it would be too hard to walk around in public safely.
#
John was waiting in a small ten seat hole in the wall cafe for a call, he knew Dalton would surface sooner or later and he’d bet it would be in the Reach, everyone who wanted to hide ended up in the Reach eventually. 
John had access to Dalton’s whole life story from Nova, he knew how he thought, how he’d react under pressure, how far he’d go to save himself, or so he’d thought. Dalton had surprised them all with the video, that kind of resourcefulness wasn’t in the files. John knew full well the files weren’t everything, under intense pressure people could do unexpected things, the could learn and adapt. If his boss ever got out into the field and did the kind of work John did for him, he might have understood this.
Not that he didn’t respect Rob Hughes, any Level 8 who had the ear of the CEO of one of the Board companies was a full measure of respect, but they lived a life disconnected from the people out here in the Outer. Even if the did sneak into the Reach for some debauchery, people like John were always waiting in the shadows to save them from themselves.
He’d worked on the Dalton project from it’s very beginning and had built up a begrudging respect for the man, they put him though hell and he hadn’t crumbled yet. Still that wouldn’t stop Rob from using Dalton as a pawn to displace Rob and take his seat, a seat he knew he do a better job sitting in.
His phone rang, he clicked the earpiece and said “Speak to me”, after a few seconds he nodded and ended the call.
He took a sip of his coffee and grimaced, it wasn’t very good, there was no real coffee out here just a cheap synthetic brew that sort of approximated coffee, sometimes. He flicked through his contacts on his phone and dialled Rob.
Rob must have been waiting with his phone in his hand as he answered halfway through the first ring “Have you got news John?” he demanded.
John answered calmly “Yes Sir, one of my spotters tell me he’s holed up in a hotel in the Reach, I’m not far from there, I should have eyes on soon”
“Good work John, what’s the play when you make contact?”
“Right now I’m not sure, I’ll need some time to see where his head is at before I make a move, first contact is always a fluid situation, I can’t sell him straight away.” said John, he never prejudged how a first contact went, people had strong bullshit meter and if you were pushing an agenda you’d get found out most of the time.
“Ok, understand this, we don’t have a lot of time here, the video is going mainstream and we need to get in front on this now” Rob was getting agitated again.
John answered simply “Understood Sir, I’ll update once contact is made” and killed the call. 
He sat at the rickety table and looked at the now cold fake coffee in front of him, Rob was going to be a problem he thought. 
He got up and left the cafe, he was only about ten blocks away from the hotel Dalton was holed up in, the walk would help get him into the mood of the Reach and free his mind from the corporate pressures, a sort of pre-contact meditation by soaking in his surroundings. John was enjoying this already.
#
Jim pulled his cap down and kept his chin down as he walked through the small hotel lobby and past the receptionist who didn’t look up as he was too busy slurping on a bowl of instant noodles. That reminded Jim how hungry he was, he didn’t remember being so hungry so often, Jim figured the stress of being on the run was energy sapping work as walked onto the street. 
He’d scouted a corner store a block over before he checked in and he headed purposefully across the street towards it, he held his head low avoiding eye contact with anyone on the street, he was trying to look like any other down on thier luck resident of the Reach. 
With his head own, Jim didn’t see the man detach himself from the crowd milling around a food stall a few buildings down from the hotel, and he did see the man following Jim’s path to the corner store.
Jim slinked into the corner store and grabbed a basket, he’d need to stock for a least a week, once he was back a the hotel room he wasn’t coming out again.
The hotel only had a grimy old microwave and at kettle, so Jim was picking out whatever he could that would work with the meagre facilities in the room. He was standing in the aisle looking at the ready made meals, a wall of VatSoy in various flavours, all claiming to taste like various different meats, with images of the real thing on the packaging. 
Jim wasn’t fooled but the advertising but he had no choice and started picking out some that sounded like they’d be ok when a stranger approached him. The man was obviously fresh out one of the twenty-four hour clubs that the Reach was famous for, and clearly still under the influence of whatever he’d been partying with, he sidled up to Jim and said “Oh yeah, got the hungers myself my friend!”
Jim smiled and nodded, trying to avoid opening a conversation with the stranger.
The man persisted “Oh… love the Chicken Curry flavour, make sure you grab one of these…” he lost track of his sentence as he grabbed a couple of the chicken curry VatSoy packets.
He turned to Jim and held out the packets he’d just taken off the shelf “Hey man, you wouldn’t be able to shout me these two would you? I’m kind of short right now.”
Fuck, thought Jim, this was the last thing he needed. “Sorry I can’t, I’ve only got enough for my food” Jim kept his head down.
“Man come on, it’s just two packets, only like 20 credits, I’m good for it” He looked was looking directly at Jim who was not returning his gaze. A flicker of recognition crossed the mans face.
“Hey, do I know you?”
Jim’s heart was in his mouth “No, we’ve never met, don’t worry about it“ He turned to walk away, but the stranger gabbed him.
“Wait, I know who you are , you’re on the news… aren’t you that guys that the Police are looking for, the one who blew up the car and beat up some reporters?”
Jim tried to shake off the man’s grip, but he held on tight. “No that’s not me, why don’t you just grab whatever you want an I’ll pay for it.”
“Fuck that shit man, do you know how many points I’ll get for turning you in, you’re not going anywhere.” The stranger had sobered up completely now and his grip on Jim tightened. 
“Don’t make a fucking sound, I’m not sharing my reward money with anyone” He pulled his phone out of his pocket to call the Police.
 Another stranger stepped into the aisle and closed the distance to Jim and his assailant quietly and efficiently, he jabbed something into the mand back and he went limp, dropping to the floor with a thud, out cold.
“We need to get out of here right now”
Jim paused “Who the fuck are you?”
“Call me John, if you don’t want to get arrested, come with me now” as he said that he bent down to take the man’s wallet and phone from the limp body. Jim registered the situation he was in, his cover almost blown and a body at his feet, he moved.
 John lead him out of the shop, stopping at the counter to tell the cashier “There’s a drunk passed out in the aisle back there, better get the Police to come and collect him.” The cashier just rolled his eyes and started dialling.
John stopped on the footpath and asked Jim “You need to get back out of sight, have you got a place to go?”
Jim simply said “Thanks for you help John, I’m good now” and started to walk away.
This was the time for John to take a gamble “Jim, you need somewhere safer than a pay by the hour hotel, especially since you video is about to go mainstream.”
Jim stopped dead in the track hearing his name and mention of his video, he turned on John “Who the hell are you? how do you know my name?”
“Relax, I’m a friendly, I’m just here to keep you safe”
“Did Vex send you to find me?”
Who was Vex thought John, it must be one of the Grey’s, time for another gamble. “No, Vex didn’t send me, I’m got my job from someone else, but we can talk about that later, let’s not stand on the street. The hotel is compromised, we can’t go back there, I’ve got a place we can hole up in for a bit so you can work our your next move safely.”
Jim didn’t want to go with anyone, anywhere, but he now had new questions. If John wasn’t working for Vex, was there another group of Grey’s working against her? Right now he needed to get off the street and somewhere safe. 
“Ok, lets go” he said.
#
They walked past the hotel on the other side of the street, Jim didn’t have anything in there he needed anyway, the reality was he didn’t actually own anything anymore apart from the second hand clothes he was wearing.
John walked briskly and ducked down side alleys a few times stopping to survey the crowd covertly to see if anyone else had picked up Jim’s tail. The streets of the Reach were always busy any time of day or night, so the chance of being seen grew stronger with each passing step out on the street. Jim felt exposed, and wasn’t sure how much longer he could walk around, the incident at the corner shop replaying in his mind, at any time someone else could grab him just like the drunk had. 
If he was being honest he wasn’t really that comfortable following John, was he lying about not knowing Vex, was this just a ruse for her to exact revenge for running from her? Either way Jim was entirely unhappy with his situation.
John pulled them into another side alley, this time he didn’t stop to look up and down the street, instead he walked down the alley and disappeared around a corner. Jim rushed to catch up and saw John standing at an open door in the back of the building.
“Hurry up I want this door closed” said John,
Jim scooted past him into the building, he immediately saw that the door opened directly onto a set of stairs that went down into a basement. Jim Paused as John closed the door behind him with a heavy thud and punched in a code on the discreet keypad on the wall. 
Jim a few steps down hadn’t seen the keypad when he rushed in, suspiciously looked at it. John saw the look “Don’t worry Jim, just disabling the security system, the door doesn’t lock from this side, you can get out anytime you want.” He brushed past Jim and went down the stairs.
At the bottom of the stairs there was a small landing and another door, this one was just like a normal door, not the steel door to they just come through from the outside, John opened it and stepped inside without any fanfare.
Cautiously Jim followed John inside to the basement, looking around he could see this was nothing like the sparse second-hand set-up of the safe room out by the Scar that Vex had wanted him to stay in. 
The contrast couldn’t have been more stark, the main room they’d stepped into was well furnished with what looked like newly bought furniture, there was a set of large matching lounges around a large wall screen. The kitchen was large and well appointed almost professional, from where he was standing he could see bedrooms off to the side, in fact it looked a lot like a high end apartment, just without the windows.
John spoke up break Jim’s surveying “Ok, a quick tour and then I think you need a shower and some new clothes.”
Jim looked down at himself in the second hand clothes he’d been wearing for days now, he couldn’t disagree with that.
John continued and waved around the room they we’re standing in “Main lounge and kitchen, obviously, over there a couple of bedrooms, ensuite for each.” He moved towards a door that was on the opposite side of the room and opened the door.
“…and here this is the office I guess you’d call it” the room was stacked with computer racking along one wall and a commercial grade looking terminal on the other. Jim couldn’t help himself and whistled at the sight of the tech humming and blinking with tiny lights.
“Yep, its a pretty solid set-up, we can tap into just about anything, that’s kind of what we do down here. Do me a favour and don’t mess with anything in here, it’s not cheap and we can’t just go out and replace this stuff.”
Jim nodded and asked “Is that terminal connected to the grid?”
Almost boasting now, John answered “Sure is, but it’s kind of a one way system, it won’t allow inbound comms, like you can search around for anything you want, but it’ll cut you off if it thinks something is trying to reach back to you”
John flicked off the light and closed the door.
This place seemed too good to be true “So who are you really?” Jim asked.
“Like I said, we have mutual friends, but I’m not looking for you to do anything for me, I just want to keep you safe until you work out your next move and perhaps help if I can”
“So you know Vex?”
John, waved him off “No I don’t, but we don’t all know each other, that’s kind of the point though. Look I’ll answer more questions later, I’ve got a couple of urgent things to do right now that you’re here, not least of which is grab some supplies, the kitchen is empty and I wasn’t expecting guests, I’ll be back in a couple of hours.”
Jim didn’t think he’d really answered the questions, but he wasn’t forcing anything onto him right now, which was a welcome change. He decided that’d he’d take the comfort of a safe place for the night, a warm shower and a real bed.
John was halfway out the door and Jim called to him “You mentioned a code to get in?”
“That’s right I did” he reached into his pocked and pulled out a small plastic card and flipped it across the room the Jim, who caught expert throw easily
“That’s a prox card, it will open the door and disarm the alarm, just wave it on the door, but if I were you I’d be staying put for a while, it won’t take long for the incident a the store to hit mainstream and then everyone will be out to find you. Catch you later”
He closed the door to the stairs and left, Jim was alone again in someone else’s safe house. This was so different to the Grey’s he’d encountered before, clearly well funded and not the least bit afraid of technology like Vex and her crew. Was this a rich offshoot, or something altogether different, he’d find out one way of the other, but for now, a hot shower.
#
Once John had left the building he made a call.
“Speak” Rob was on the line immediately
“I’ve got him” said matter of factly.
“Where”
“He’s in one of our data siphoning safe houses out in the Reach, I just left him there.”
“Good, make sure you keep him under lock and key, we can’t afford to lose him”
“Yes Sir, he’s tucked up nice and tight.”
Rob audibly sighed on the other end of the line “Ok, I’ll come back to you with a plan of attack in twelve hours.”
“Roger that Sir” the line was cut.
John shook his head, he knew what he needed to do, Rob didn’t realise he had the man, so he had control now.
He sent a text to a different number
[Project 29 is in location DS354 under my control]
The response was instant.
[Copy, proceed with variation Delta]
John smiled as he walked into the street.

















CHAPTER 17

NEIL’S NEW JOB (NEIL 7)

Vex was pacing the room, silent with fury; no one dared to speak. The main room of the Grey’s safe house out in the scar territory was full this morning. Vex had demanded an unprecedented meeting of all of the Grey’s cell leaders. Normally a meeting like this was far too risky, but today Vex wanted answers and wasn’t about to waste time going through the normal slow analogue communications channels.
Vex stopped pacing and spoke “How the fuck does a corporate executive, who’s been sitting behind desk and sipping wine for twenty years, suddenly bust out of this safe house and then just disappear?”
No one answered.
Vex pointed at Corra “Just tell me how you fucked up so bad?”
Corra paled. “He caught me off guard, I didn’t think for one moment he would run”
“When did I ever tell you we made assumptions like that here? We can’t afford to. Now there’s a man out that in the city who knows my face, and can identify half the room here. Worse still he knows about this safe house. We don’t know where he is, or what he’ll do; if he gets caught by the CEB all of what we’ve worked for these last few year will be blown.” 
Again the room was silent; it was best not to give Vex a target when she was angry.
Vex started pacing again “Brask, you’re up; Rook is blown with Jim. I need you to find Jim, we can’t have him out there in the wild. I need you to find him fast, you just know the CEB is gunning for him too.”
Brask nodded “Got it, and when I find him?” the question hung heavy in the silence of the room.
Vex took a moment then answered “Bring him to me, I’ll talk to him. If he’s not on board with us; he can rot under the swamp in the Scar.”
Brask nodded again and got up to leave, he didn’t want to stay around for what was coming next. 
Vex watched him leave, deliberately not speaking until she knew he’d left the safe house. She turned to speak to Rook next; he was sitting at the kitchen table drinking a cooling synth coffee.
“Rook, you’re not dropping Jim completely; Brask has got the lead on him for now, but keep an eye out in case we can’t grab him and we have to go more, kinetic. You can go”, She dismissed him.
Again Vex waited until Rook left before continuing. She spoke to a man who was sitting in the shadows at the back of the room. She spoke with a level of respect no one had been afforded at the meeting so far.
“You need to get our new friend onboard with us quickly. We’re going to need access into Nova’s systems sooner rather than later.” Vex Said
The man answered “Are you sure? Right now he doesn’t know who I am. Besides, he’s no hacker.”
“I know but he’s got access to terminals that can get us what we need.”
“That was just a simple task, a mere theft, what you’re talking about is a serious hack.”
“I know, but with fucking Jim Dalton possibly blowing this whole show any time, I don’t think we have any choice but to bring out plans forward.”
The man considered her statement “No, I don’t think we do” he paused and Vex waited for him to speak again “What about this place?” he asked.
Vex looked around at Corra and the three other people were left in the room. She raised her eyebrow to the man who quietly nodded.
Vex barked to the others in the room. “Ok, we’ve got to assume this place is burnt; pack it all up and make sure there’s nothing left but ashes when you’re done. Corra you and I can start downstairs.”
With that vex walked across the room and down the stairs, Corra followed happy to have been spared any more public dressing down.
The three people left in the room looked to the man still sitting in the back of the room. “You heard her, let’s not waste time”
They silently moved to different corners of the room and started unpacking cupboards and drawers; this was clearly something they’d practiced. 
A single gunshot rang out from downstairs; they all stopped dead in thier tracks. 
The man stood at the back of the room stood up and walked towards the stairs just as Vex emerged silently. He looked at her, an expression of genuine concern on his face, much like a father might look upon a daughter who’s had to do a difficult thing. They didn’t speak, an unspoken question and answer seemed to pass between them. Vex broke his gaze and looked passed him and saw everyone staring at them. 
She barked “Get on with it, we’ve got fifteen minutes before we’re all out of here.”
#
It was early in the morning and Neil was awake, much to his annoyance. It was too early to be be awake; he’d been struggling to sleep ever since he’d seen his wife and daughter and found out they’d all been deceived. He racked his brain, but just couldn’t put his finger on who or why would do that to him; it kept him up most nights trying to work the problem. If he was being honest with himself he was also nervous with anticipation about the next job the Grey’s gave him. The last job was equally terrifying and thrilling; but he had to admit it was the most alive he’d felt in years.
The street lights outside were seeping their weak yellow light through the thin curtains into the bedroom of his meagre apartment in the halfway house. The sun wasn’t ready yet to light the sky. 
Neil stumbled into the small living area, not bothering to turn on the room’s lights. He liked the darkness, it soothed his soul after five years in prison where the lights never went out. He checked the wall clock. It was about thirty minutes before his alarm was set to go off. 
“Every fucking morning” thought Neil
He flopped down and sprawled across the small two-seat lounge, its worn springs creaking and flicked on the TV bolted to the wall. The news of the day was playing with another update on Jim Dalton.
“ …Dalton hasn’t been seen now for a least 4 days; despite hundreds of claimed sightings ranging from the Scar all the way across the to Reach. Metro Police remain concerned about his safety and are actively pursuing all leads. No words on the group called the Grey’s; they remain largely unknown. Metro Police are continuing to look into who is behind the group, but have not been able to pin the group down as yet…”
Neil flicked the mute button… the TV’s hum died, leaving only old news. He’d been following Jim Dalton’s case closely, ever since the Greys were tied to his downfall. He felt an odd connection to Dalton’s story. If he was honest, he felt a bit special knowing some of the Greys directly and having worked for them. ‘Did that make him a Grey?’ he wondered.
A quiet knock sounded at the door. Neil stared at it, wishing he could see through to whoever was there so early in the morning. Probably Grant, that nosy bastard, poking around. He really didn’t like Grant… sometimes it felt like he was still in jail.
Reluctantly he got up off the couch, stretched and sauntered over to the door, he was in no rush. Whoever it was could wait. He stopped at the door and hesitated, the building was silent, did he imagine the knock?
The knock came again, just as quietly as before. He opened the door, it was Knox.
Neil was shocked, what was Knox doing here? He hadn’t spoken to him for weeks; ever since he’d got settled into his job he’d had no need for Knox’s advice. Seeing Knox standing there, he immediately felt guilty for dropping him like that. 
“Knox, what are you doing here, and so early?”
Knox smiled “Are you going to let me in?” he countered.
“Of course, come in. It’s not much, buts it’s mine for only half my monthly allowance” Neil said dripping with sarcasm.
Knox chuckled as he moved inside “Yep, things haven’t changed much since I got out, my first place was pretty much the same.”
 “How long ago was that now?”
Knox sat at the small table “Must be at least ten years ago now.”
“Ten years, and still grinding it out with the rest of us our here, seems pretty rigged to me”
Knox nodded in agreement, and asked “You wouldn’t be able to make me a coffee, I had an early start and something makes me think this will be a long day.”
Neil moved over the small kitchenette and pulled out a jar of instant coffee. It was the best he could find in the loca area; he’d splurged a fair chunk of his left over credits for it. He’d figured if he had to live in this shit hole at least he could look forward a half decent coffee each morning.
Waiting for the kettle to boil he asked “Knox, its nice to see you, what the hell are you doing here at my place so damn early. Is it about my job?” Neil was starting to get worried that his escapade of a few days ago had been discovered.
“No, it’s not about your day job, but it is about a job of sorts”
“Knox you’re not making any sense.” Neil was very confused now.
The kettle boiled and Neil filled two cups with hot water, the smell that wafted up was almost like real coffee. Knox waited silently for Neil to sit at the table; he sipped at the steaming black coffee with his eyes closed savouring the warmth of the black liquid.
“I see you haven’t skimped on this, it’s the good stuff.” Knox sat forward and fixed his eyes onto Neil. this wasn’t the kind hearted man Neil thought he knew; the gaze was suddenly all business.
“Neil, remember when I told you to steer clear of Rook and his type?”
 “Yes” Neil said simply, he didn’t expect the conversation to go in this direction; he wasn’t sure he liked it.
“Well, it seems like you didn’t listen to me and now they want you to do some more things for them.”
Neil was shocked “Wait, are you involved with them; did they send you here?”
Knox’s gaze didn’t move, after a pause he simply said “Yes, and yes.”
“Fucking hell Knox, are you telling me you were one them from the start?”
“Neil, under normal circumstances you’d never have known. This Jim Dalton that’s been all over the news has meant a change of plans; an acceleration if you will.”
Neil was floored, Knox the man who’d helped him out as a mentor showing him the ropes when he first started working was a Grey the whole time.
“Knox, I don’t know what to say.”
Knox smiled a warm disarming smile that made him look like a regular kind old man again and said “You don’t have to say anything Neil, you have to do something. I believe last time you and Vex spoke you said you were ready for more work. We’ll, I’m here to give you your next job. Are you ready?”
This was not how he thought this morning would go, but it was what he‘d been waiting for. The Greys had surprised him yet again; Neil was seriously impressed with how well they could keep doing that. These were people who could get stuff done and he was all for it.
“I’m ready.” he said; he was absolutely certain he was.
#
An hour or so later Neil was walking out of the lift through the little ground floor lobby of the halfway house. Just like every other morning, six days a week, he was on his way to catch the bus to his job out in the Rust Belt. This morning Grant was waiting at the door to his office and called over to Neil.
“Neil, let’s chat for a moment.” He asked.
“Can we chat after work? I don’t want to miss my bus” said Neil.
“Don’t worry about that bus, it’s not yours anymore” He gestured for Neil to follow him into the office.
Neil was immediately on guard, his pulse quickening… had Grant heard something about his work at Stratum Projects? Had he been caught stealing the files? Had the Security Director reported him after all… or was it his late-night dealings with the Greys? Grant had already warned him to keep his nose clean. He didn’t want a final warning.
Neil followed him into the office. Grant didn’t sit and didn’t extend the invitation for Neil to sit either.
“I don’t know how; but you’ve been reassigned to a new job starting today.”
Neil was as shocked as Grant.
“Reassigned, to where?” Neil blurted out.
“Well, as of about an hour ago you’re moving to a new job with a company called… Nova Corporation.” Grant swivelled his terminal screen around to show Neil the message. Before Neil had a chance to read it, Grant continued “I’m all my time here managing this place, I’ve never seen a message like this; it’s real, I’ve checked.”
Neil was unsure of what to say, so instead awkwardly shrugged.
“I mean, it’s not even in the Rust Belt, apparently some sort of data centre close to the city.”
The penny dropped… Neil’s gut twisted. This was Knox’s new job, apparently. It was the place he’d stolen the plans for. Neil hadn’t expected a real job when Knox mentioned it. He’d braced for another clandestine task… yet the Greys had blindsided him again.
He had to be careful not to tip off Grant that he now understood what was going on. It was all too easy for Neil to play this off as a surprise “How? Did I do something wrong”
“Don’t be a smart arse, I’m sure you know exactly what’s going on.” Grant shot back, his surprise replaced by irritation.
Neil stared at Grant. “Look, I don’t know what you’ve got yourself mixed up with; but my advice is: get yourself out of it. This won’t end well.” said Grant
Neil didn’t respond again, he was getting annoyed at Grant now. The man was part of the system, a bottom feeder for sure; but he was a part of the system keeping Neil down. Neil was taking real action now and this man was not just standing in his way; he was getting upset that Neil now had connections.
“I don’t know what you’re talking about, I’m just doing my time here like everyone else. If I was doing anything wrong you’d report me.” Neil said as nonchalantly as he could.
Grant shook his head in disgust “You and I both know I’m not reporting you for anything. Your friends have made it very clear what would happen if I did.”
Neil didn’t know that, but he wasn’t surprised. He found himself quite pleased to hear Grant had been warned off. The power had clearly shifted here and he leant into it.
“That’s right, my friends and I wouldn’t be happy if you did that.”
Growing more confident Neil pressed his new found power “Now tell me where I need to go and we can stop pretending you’ve got any say in what I do from now on.”
Grant was silent for a moment, Neil could see the anger in his face. Eventually he spat out “Details are on your phone, now get the fuck out of my office.”
Neil didn’t need to be asked twice, this was turning out to be a good day.
#
Neil watched the bus he used to take each morning pull away from the curb, the eyes of his former fellow passengers staring out of the windows at him full of questions. He shook off the feeling he’d never occupy the same space as those people again. He’d read the instructions on his phone, his new bus was leaving from a few blocks over the walk would give him time to take stock of the morning.
He was coming to realise that he’d been consistently underestimating the Greys. It seemed with every passing day they demonstrated just how wide, and fast, they could reach out and exert influence. 
What really shocked Neil was the revelation that Knox was connected to the Greys. The seemingly gentle and helpful old Knox who’d shown him the ropes in his first few weeks out in the Rush Belt and helped him get settled into the halfway house. The Knox who was everyone’s friend, was a Grey; associated with Rook, Brask and Vex. What made Neil pause for thought the most was that Knox had actually warned him off dealing with the Grey’s when they first met; just how long had Knox and the Greys been working him?
He immediately shook off the thought; for now his burning need get retribution on those who’d engineered his downfall and had taken away his family, outweighed any reservations about being manipulated by the Greys. Not forgotten Neil thought, just put aside as long as thier goals remained the same.
Neil was actually buzzing with anticipation at the prospect of working at Nova Corp. It was the first time in years he was generally excited about something new. Still, there was a growing nervousness about what they were going to ask him to do. He’d only just survived the last task they’d assigned him, and that was in no small part down to dumb luck. 
Lost in thought, he’d already arrived at the bus stop he’d been allocated, it was empty. No crowd of sleepy workers ready for thier next twelve hour day waiting for thier bus like he was used to. He checked again the instructions on his phone, did he have the right place? The street signs said he was in the right spot; Neil stood on the curb looking up and down the street for the bus. 
A white van pulled up and the side door opened directly in front of Neil. He could see into the windows that this van had been converted to carry about nine or so passengers. There was no driver to welcome him; at that moment his phone pinged. He looked at it and the message that arrived simply said 
[Transport has arrived, please alight vehicle]
Neil did as it asked and sat down in the second row of the van. The door started to shut and them shuddered to a stop, the lights in the van flickered.
Neil looked around his sense of danger rising, did he need to get out he thought? He was bracing himself to flee the van.
Brask, from out of nowhere jumped in; Neil jumped back in surprise.
“Stay put” Brask barked at Neil as he flipped a switch on the blocker he was holding in his hand, this one had three buttons unlike the single on-off button Neil’s unit had.
The lights immediately stopped flickering and the door resumed it’s path, closing smoothly as muffling the street noise. 
Brask sat across the aisle from Neil, he spoke as the van pulled noiselessly away from the curb. “I don’t have much time, we’ve got about five minutes before the van alerts back to base there is a problem with the system.”
He held up the blocker and showed it to Neil “This unit’s blocking all out going signals and can stall the whole the whole system, but it’s got it limits, so listen carefully”
Neil understood and simply said “Got it, what have you got for me?”
“Ok, the plans you stole were for Nova Corp’s new data centre, we managed to get you in as a low level systems installer…”
Neil interrupted “Systems installer, I don’t know anything about systems..”
Brask cut him off “…this is not a two way conversation, shut the fuck up and listen.” He stared at Neil who didn’t respond.
“Ok, you know enough about plans and building to bluff your way through, we’ll only need you in there for a short time anyway.”
Brask paused and checked the screen on the console, it was still showing a “no network available” warning. 
Satisfied, he continued. “This new data centre they’re building is going to be the most advanced system built since before the Reclamation. We think most of the citizenship points management is going to end up running on it, so we want to get a backdoor into the system. It’s not fully secure yet so you need to find a weak point that we can drop our code into.”
“What am I looking for exactly?” Neil asked.
“We need to install hidden transmitter directly into one of the servers. We’ve got a team working on it now, so don’t ask me any questions about it.”
“I wouldn’t have a clue how to do that” Neil protested.
“I don’t care, apparently others think you’ll be able to work it. All I know is you’ve only got a few days to sniff around and find out how and where we can get our device plugged in. After that the system will be fully functional and will find anything we install, our window is small and getting smaller.”
Neil took a deep breath and nodded “Ok, I’ve got it”
Brask seemed to accept his answer. He flipped a switch again on his blocker and the van’s lights flickered again. The van shuddered to a stop, it felt like the Van was fighting against some unseen hand trying to stop it. The door popped open and Brask pushed his way out. “Knox will swing by your apartment for updates at seven tonight.”
He got out and skilfully blended into the streetscape.
The van came back to life; chimes sounded in the cabin as the system alerted Neil to the door being open. The centre console flashed back into life, the network was found and the Nova Corp logo smoothly rotated on the screen. The van pulled back into to traffic as if nothing had happened and continued on it’s way to it’s destination.
Neil sat back and let it take him to his next big task. He could do this; he must do this he though to himself. If there was a chance to hack or even break the system, he was all in.












CHAPTER 18

JIM’S VIDEO (JIM 9)

Jim woke up slowly, savouring the comfort and warmth of the bed. The silence and feeling of safety being tucked away in this luxury bunker was like a second blanket wrapped around him. He felt truly rested for the first time since the whole nightmare had began. 
He didn’t know how long he slept, or what time it was; there were no windows in the bedroom. The only light in the room was softly leaking under the door from the main lounge and kitchen area outside the bedroom. 
He stretched and rolled around luxuriating in the comfort of the queen sized bed, a real actual bed, not some bunk or old couch. Jim never thought such simple pleasures of a warm bed and a full stomach could be so good.
He wasn’t ready to get up yet. There was no need to, no alarms scheduled, no places he needed to go. In fact lying there basking in his immediate comfort, Jim could picture himself holed up in this basement for ever. 
Jim knew it was just a dream though. His eyes still closed unwilling to break the spell, he reflected on this latest turn of events. He was, for the time being, safely squirrelled away here. John had brought in enough supplies last night for at least a week, along with a fresh hot take-away meal from one of the many hole in the wall restaurants plying thier trade all night in the Reach.
He thought more about John, although he doubted that was him name. The man had stepped in at the last minute to rescue him, what a coincidence that John just happened to be in the store at the right time and had this basement hide-out nearby all ready to go. Jim didn’t think it was just luck that it all lined up for him so neatly, he filed that question to the growing list of things he didn’t understand.
Jim assumed John was connected to the Greys, although he had never really confirmed it. That was how they operated Jim thought; never directly answering anything. It was a tactic Jim was going to use more often now too.
He thought about what he could confirm; John didnt know Vex, which might be a good thing for Jim considering how he left Vex’s hospitality. Jim could see that this branch of the Greys, was very different to Vex’s group. The seemed to have a lot more resources and were definitely not scared of technology, the commercial grade server set-up in this basement was evidence of that. 
He wondered how many other factions the Greys were out there? Discovering that this world of underground resistance existed was both shocking and liberating at the same time.
One thing Jim did know was that John had shown him more respect and friendliness than any of the Vex’s Greys had, and he was going to soak up that hospitality until he knew what he was going to do next.
What was he going to do next he thought? He didn’t actually know, he’d been so busy surviving that thinking long-term had not even been on his radar, all he’d done was react and run. 
Today he was going to figure out a way to fight back, but first he was going to cook himself a big breakfast and brew a big hot mug of coffee or two. He opened his eyes, threw off the bedsheets and sat-up, invigorated that he was finally ready to take control by what lay ahead. 
#
Jim was sitting at the small table in the kitchenette of the bunker finishing up his big breakfast with great satisfaction. He looked over at the mess he’s made when he cooked it and supposed he should clean up after himself, after all he was a guest, possibly a prisoner, the line between those two ideas was getting blurry in his life at the moment. 
A low beeping sound started coming from the server room across from where he was sitting. John had shown him the room when they came in yesterday, he’s was too tired to take much in at the time, but it was certainly nothing like the clapped out techno-phobic safe house out in the Scar territory. 
The beeping was persistent, Jim still chewing a last mouthful of toast walked over to the server roon door went to opened, fully expecting it to be locked. It wasn’t and it opened silently into the room. Jim stopped at the door impressed for the second time by the sheer value of the equipment in the room. The room itself was as big as the whole open plan lounge kitchen he just ate breakfast in. One whole side of the room was taken up by racks of high end servers, it looked like at least half a dozen of them, all producing a low hum from the whirring fans, blue red and green lights were blinking across all of them. These servers were not sitting idle.
The beeping was coming from one of the two workstations on the other side of the room. Each terminal was set-up on dark grey steel desks of like the ones you’d repair electronics at rather than office desks. They held only a mouse, keyboard and large LCD screen.
One of the screens was responsible for the beeping and Jim walked over to it hesitantly. The screen display a simple message line in white text on the otherwise black screen, there seems to be no operation system working at all.
[New message received – Do you want to view Y/N]
Jim didn’t actually want to interfere with the terminal, he had no idea what they were doing in here and wasn’t about to mess it up for them and potentially put himself in more danger.
Just as he was surveying the room, the terminal beeped again this time it felt more more insistent, he looked at the screen.
[New message received (2) – Do you want to view Y/N]
Someone clearly wanted to talk to John, or whoever was running this site, Jim was tempted to answer and see what was going on.
[Answer Y now Jim]
Jim stood there staring at the screen, the message didn’t make any sense, no-one knew he was there, unless it was John who wanted to talk to Jim. That made sense and it might be important so Jim sat at the terminal and press the Y key.
A chat window opened up immediately.
[Hello Jim]
Jim typed “Who is this, is it you John? What’s going on?”
[No it’s not John, I’m a colleague of his, we’re working on your case together]
That didn’t sound very Grey like thought Jim.
“Who are you?” asked typed again.
[I can’t tell you at the moment, but I have information you need to know]
“How did you know I’m here?” Jim typed getting nervous, perhaps he wasn’t as safe as he thought.
[Jim, you don’t think we have surveillance in every room there? I waited for you finish your breakfast before messaging you]
Jim whipped his head around to look at the room, sure enough there was a small black lens on the ceiling in one of the corners of the room, you had to look to see it, but it wasn’t hidden, just small. He got up and bolted out of the room into the lounge and within seconds found two more black lenses in the ceiling. He couldn’t believe he’d missed them, in fact it was worse, he hadn’t even thought to look.
Shit! Jim thought, his illusion of safety shattered, the hearty breakfast now sitting heavy in his gut. They’d been watching him the whole time like he was an exhibit in a zoo.
Jim had and overwhelming urge to get out and just run, he raced up the stairs to the door to the outside and pushed. Nothing, the door didn’t move at all, the little keypad on the wall stubbornly displayed a red light. John had lied to him, he was not set-up to come and go as he pleased. 
Out of frustration Jim hammered on the door until his hands hurt. He slumped down against the door and closed his eyes, he was trapped again and they was nothing he could do about it.
#
Jim wasn’t sure how long he’d been sitting at the top of the stairs just staring into space. What he did know was that his back was starting to hurt and leaning against the steel door was making him cold, the stairs were not comfortable place to sit and contemplate. This latest setback, being trapped here in the luxury basement, had affected him more than he expected. Perhaps it was the brief hours where he felt he finally taken control of his situations and was using John and this bunker for his own plans only to have it snatched away in an instant. Jim’s willpower and resolve clearly had a limit, and he’d reached it.
Reluctantly he stood up, his body creaked and cracked, he was really feeling the fall-out of weeks on the run. Jim slunk down the stairs, not actually wanting to go back into the relative luxury of the bunker, it was embarrassing to have been tricked again.
Thankfully the beeping has stopped in the server room, Jim ignored the open door and decided he need a strong coffee to help gather his thoughts. He walked over to the kitchen and turned the high-end coffee machine on. It started doing its thing, heating, pumping, grinding and making all sorts of noise to prepare a fresh coffee for Jim. He stood there silently, the noises an oddly soothing distraction from the dull silence of the room. 
The beeping started again. 
“Fuck off” Jim yelled at the room, he looked around searching for the camera in the room and flipped it the middle finger when it he found it. The coffee was ready and he defiantly took it and sat at the table, in the space of a few minutes he’d gone from deflated to angry.
The beeping hadn’t stopped, if anything it had somehow got louder. He sipped at his coffee, he was to annoyed to enjoy it, the beeping from the server room was piercing his head.  It was that is was loud enough to hurt him, it was what is represented; another person who wanted to control him.
He sat at the table eyes closed in a battle of wills to see who would break first, the terminal that was simply running a command to beep, or his fragile state of mind. He lost.
Jim stomped into the server room and sat down at the terminal, nothing had change since he stormed out. The chat was still open exactly where he left it.
[Jim, you don’t think we have surveillance in every room there? I waited for you finish your breakfast before messaging you]
Jim typed [What do you want?]
The answer wasn’t immediate in coming, like the person on the other end had left the room too. Jim waited, soon enough they answered.
[Sorry Jim, I stepped away when I saw you were going to be sitting on the stairs for a bit]
Screw you thought Jim, he typed again [What do you want?]
[I have information you need to know, John is not telling you the truth]
Jim already knew that, he responded [Sure, John’s a liar, tell me something new, better yet let me out of here or just leave me alone]
[Jim, I can’t let you out, I don’t have access for that, I’m risking a lot just by chatting to you]
[Ok, what are you dying to tell me them] asked Jim
[John works for Nova Corp, this is not a Grey safe-house. Nova has these data centres across the city sucking up citizen’s data illegally. Do you really thing the Grey’s have the resource for a bunker like this]
The news that he was trapped here by Nova Corp rocked Jim back in his chair, he sucked in a deep breath. He didn’t have the energy to do much else. Of course it made sense now.
[Nice story, prove it] typed Jim.
A screen shot of an employment file popped into the chat. Jim new what these looked like, it seemed very real. 
There was John, actually his real first name, an employee of Nova Corp for the past five years, a Level 7 executive, he was a Special Projects Manager, whatever that meant. 
Jim read further, John was formerly a CEB intelligence officer, who clearly jumped ship for the private sector, Jim couldn’t blame him for that.
[Why are you showing me this?] asked Jim.
[Because Nova is using you, has been all along, everything that has happened to you is thier doing.]
[What do you mean?]
The answer was a video file.
Jim clicked on it.
His stomach dropped, tt was the interior of the Apex restaurant, just what Jim wanted to see, the moment he’d screwed his whole life up. Except the angle was different from the video that had been released online, this video was clearly from a security camera and showed the the whole booth along with the two each side.
The video showed Rob was already sitting at the booth with the timestamp at 12:01pm, almost thirty minutes before Jim had arrived in the car Rob had booked for him. 
Jim did not like where this was going.
Back in the video, Rob had now taken something out of his jacket, turned around in his seat and started fiddling around at the back of the seat. He got up and sat on the other side of the booth where Jim had sat and pulled out his mobile phone. He was looking at it and then looking across the table. He got up and leaned over to the back of his seat where he looked to be adjusted something, he sat back in Jim’s seat looked at the phone again, nodded and went back to his seat.
It suddenly dawned on Jim what he had just seen; Rob had placed a camera in the seat facing where Jim was going to sit, he even sat in Jim’s seat and adjusted it to make sure the angle was right. 
Fuck me thought Jim.
Jim typed frantically [Was that a camera he hid in the seat to film me, what the hell is going on?]
[Keep watching]
The video started again.
Rob was not talking to the waitress Jim had abused, they were have a good chat by the looks of it, pity there was no sound. Rob took out what looked like Jim’s contract and placed in on the table, just like he had when he offered Jim the job at Nova. Jim could see Rob gesturing with and empty glass to the waitress, he was showing here how he wanted her to spill wine over the contract. They both laughed and Jim saw Rob slipped the waitress his card which she swiped on her personal wallet.
He fucking paid her to spill the wine’ thought Jim. Suddenly he felt light headed and he needed to close his eyes and brace himself against the table to save himself form passing out. He took a few deep breaths and opened his eyes.
He typed the next question in a sort of out of body state. 
[The whole thing was a set-up, was there ever a job, is Rob even real?] 
[To answer your questions, yes the Nova Corp job offer was a set-up from start to finish, there never was a job for you. Rob is real, he works at Nova, he’s actually John’s direct boss]
This was just all too much, it felt like Jim’s whole world had shifted half a foot to the left, he was so displaced. He knew he had one more question to ask, but he didn’t know if he had it in him to even type it.
No, he thought to himself, they will not break him.
He typed, but he knew the answer [Who does Rob answer to?]
The answer seemed like forever coming, but in reality it only took a split second.
[Shane]
#
Shane, who Jim had known for years, the man who’d helped him countless times navigate the politics and intrigue of the corporate ladder and points system. Shane and Helen, Jim and Sarah, a little team who only a few weeks ago had been planning a holiday to Italy. Shane the man who Jim considered, a friend, a mentor, even kind of a big brother that he’d never had. 
That Shane had betrayed him.
Jim was leaning back in the chair silently, the whirring the of the cooling fans the only sound in the room, he could of taste the scent of the warm electronics and plastic in the back of his mouth. His eyes were closed, his hands clasped behind his head, he was unconsciously rocking gently back and forward.
Jim was remembering. 
Snippets of memories with Shane would flash before his eyes, but the rose coloured glasses were off when he was seeing them now. He could see a sly look here and there from Shane when he didn’t think Jim was looking, or a conversation that was that now Jim could see was a subtle manipulation. At the time Jim had shrugged them off as Shane just being Shane, successful, brilliant and eccentric, Jim was just happy to be in his orbit.
It was all falling into place now for Jim, minutes ago his world had shifted a foot to left, but now he was catching up on his new viewpoint and seeing things very differently.
Shane had played him from the day they had met.
Jim remembered that day clearly now, he was a new Level 7 executive, still finding his way in the corporate world and sitting by himself on a lunch break in one of the food courts that seemed to grow on the bottom levels of most major office towers in the city. He remembered he’d splashed on a fancy plate food to celebrate his new status in life, he couldn’t remember what kind of food it was all these years later. What he did remember was that he was sitting minding his own business savouring his food, when a group of people sat a the table next to him. Thier conversation a little to loud for the food court. Jim looked over and saw the expensive tailored suits and the shiny watches, he picked them as Level 8’s immediately; the pinnacle of the corporate world. 
Shane was speaking to his friends “… that was such a blast last night, we’ve all got to do it again soon, Alan, just don’t tell your wife next time.”
The whole table laughed loudly, Alan blushed but played along with the joke.
“Dont worry Shane, next time it will be top secret”
Shane smiled and nodded “So, what’s good here gents? I’ve got a hard out in thirty-five minutes”
He looked over to Jim and without hesitation asked him” Hey, that looks good, where did you get that?” 
The whole table was now looking at Jim, who had just taken a big bite of food could only point at the restaurant he’d bought his dish from. 
Alan seeming eager to please said “Clearly our friend is enjoying it, I’ll grab us a couple of plates.”
One of the other men chimed in “Too big for me, I’ll see what else is here, be back in a few” He and and Alan got up and left the table leaving Shane by himself.
Shane leaned over to Jim and stuck out his hand “I’m Shane”
Jim had swallowed his food, but it felt like it had gone down sideways, he returned the handshake and managed to, almost normally, say “I’m Jim”
“Nice to meet you Jim, you’re new around here, I haven’t seen you before” said Shane.
“Yes, I started a few weeks ago upstairs” answered Jim.
Shane looked at Jim as if appraising him, finally he said “New to Level 7?”
How did he know? thought Jim, he remembered immediately being embarrassed, he was sure he turned bright red.
Before he could answer Shane said “Don’t worry, it’s not that obvious, I’ve just got a eye for detail.”
Jim asked “What gives it away?”
“It’s the off the rack suit, I mean it’s nice fabric and fits quite well, but it’s not tailored, I can tell by the details. Here, take may card and go down to Thorn & Sons, it’s a few blocks down. Show them my card and they’ll do a cracking deal for you, it might stretch you, but take it from me; looking the part is just as important as doing the job”
Shane handed over his card, it was a sleek dark metal card etched with his name a number and nothing else. He waited expectantly looking directly at Jim with his million credit smile, until Jim realised Shane was waiting for Jim’s card in return. 
Jim handed his card over, it was just a standard issue polymer one, in fact he’d only just got them a few days ago, this was the first one he’d handed out.
“Give me a call in a few weeks when you’ve got the suit, I want to test them and see if they helped you out, don’t forget now” Shane said
At the moment Alan and his colleague returned with plates of food and Shane winked at Jim and turned back to his own table, his conversation with Jim was over.
At the time Jim had been so excited to have a new high level contact that he rushed home early from work and told Sarah. Of course he’d gone out and used up three months of savings to buy bespoke tailored suit, he didn’t want to disappoint Shane.
The memory faded, anger creeping up on Jim like he’d never had before. That was it, the day Shane hooked Jim, everything after that was a lie, a manipulation, fake. 
Fuck you Shane, you’re not getting away with this thought Jim.
He opened he eyes, the chat was still open, it was like whoever was on the other end was just wait patiently for Jim to process all this. 
He leaned forward and typed [Fuck Shane and Nova Corp, they’ll pay for this]
There was no answer.
Jim typed again, a flash of revelation had come to him [You don’t work for them do you? You said John and Rob work at Nova, you never said you did]
Again there was no answer.
[You never would have shown me these videos if you did work at Nova, answer me!]
Finally the answer came back [No, I don’t work for Nova Corp]
Jim asked [Why are you showing me this?]
[I want to bring Nova down]
Jim smiled, his anger twisting it into a grimace and typed [Then lets get to work]

























CHAPTER 19

ROB AND JIM (JIM 10)

John was back at the Nova Corp office building, sitting comfortably knowing Dalton was safely locked away out in the Reach. Like all members of Nova Corp’s Special Projects division, he had a small office on the 37th floor befitting his status as a Level 7 executive. The only concession to what he and the division actually did, was that the whole floor was locked down tight. No one came in or out without permission from the very top, and that was never given.
It wasn’t too bad really, certainly it was a big step up after a decade at the Citizenship Enforcement Bureau where he’d ridden a worn down steel desk in a cold and drafty open plan office. He never had the time to really concentrate there, it was a constant distracting hum of voices; agents chasing down leads or citizens pleading for just one more chance and they’d stay on the right side of the law. They never did and he’d stopped giving second chances pretty quickly. 
Here at Nova he had an office to himself, it was small, but not tiny and it was his own. In keeping with Nova’s policy you could decorate it however you wanted and on this floor there was no budget. John had decided to go for an old school lawyers look, dark faux wood and leather, it was a luxury bolt hole when he need to work on projects, or just shut out the noise. He figured he deserved it after years serving the people, he never once regretted jumping ship to the private sector.
Not that he didn’t still like getting out in the field getting his hands dirty for Nova, but some days it was a hard choice, stay put in comfort and send a junior operator, or schlep outside and muscle some unknowing citizen into playing some small part in one of Nova’s grand projects. 
Jim Dalton wasn’t any ordinary dupe though, he’d proven time and again he could get the better of even one of the best resourced departments, he just wouldn’t stay inside the lines they’d very carefully drawn for him. 
Rob stopped by a poked his head into John’s office.
“You’re back, good, what’s Daltons status?” Rob asked.
“He’s locked up in one of our data scoop bunkers out in the Reach, he’s probably worked out by now he can’t get out, but I’ve stocked it for a least a week so we have time to make out next move.”
“Good work, I’ll come back to you once we know what we want to do with him, I’ve got a call with the boss later and we’ll decide if we need to end the project or not” Rob said.
“Yes Sir, I’ll be ready” responded John in his usual matter of fact way.
“Ok, I’m out to lunch, be back later” said Rob as he walked away without bothering to hear if John answered him of not. John didn’t answer just looked at Rob’s back as he left. If Rob had looked back he would have seen a predatory smile on John’s face as he realised that Rob just didn’t know how to deal with the problem and that was leverage John thought he could use.

#
Rob didn’t go out for lunch, for any number of reasons he needed to be close by his office. Shane had made it clear the Dalton project was getting close to its end game and he needed to be on in the office ready when that call came. He also needed to make sure he could drag the project back from the brink, or at least cauterise the wounds he’s suffered on this one, he hadn’t build up a reputation for getting results by letting people like Dalton do what they wanted. 
He’d called John back in from the field once he’d found and secured Dalton. Rob knew John was a seasoned field operative, street smart and not too concerned with ethics, that’s why Rob recruited him from the CEB ins the first place. The lack of loyalty to anything other than himself was always going to be a problem for Rob eventually, he could see it on day one. Recently Rob got the sense that John was looking to move up up from the field and play an altogether different game, a game that Rob was better at. Rob needed a day or so to put a failsafe in place if John was going to make a move on him, but he wasn’t sure he had that much time. He just needed to play out a few scenarios a bit longer before he felt safe.
He’s stopped at the 30th floor executive dining room, it was mostly empty, but that was normal. One of the perks being a Level 9 and a head of the secretive Special Projects division meant he could eat top end restaurant quality meals in the dining room, for free, without any subordinates, or anyone he didn’t want to bothering him.
Rob sat at one of his favourite tables, this one he liked to sit at when he was contemplating and planning. The table was right next to the huge panoramic glass wall overlooking the city, he could see clear out to the hills bordering the eastern edge of the city. The hills where Shane and other CEO’s lived and worked in the Enclave, a secret and secure place where the real power of the city lay, only occasionally did they venture into the city to mix with the citizens. Rob was lucky enough to travel into the Enclave often to meet with Shane at the palatial head quarters of Nova Corp, that also served as Shane primary residence. 
Sitting at the table, the view always reminded Rob of his aim to be out there as a CEO one day, he always felt the view sharpened his thinking and focussed his ambition, he needed that today.
The staff in the dining room knew not to bother him until he signalled, so they kept out of sight. Rob placed his tablet on the table and set it to scan the news feed for the latest ebb and flow of public opinion on the Dalton story. There was a distinct downturn in the news feeds, the story was being pushed off the front page now that Dalton had been missing for days, the news cycle didn’t like when there was no news.
Rob signalled to the staff to bring his lunch, they knew what he wanted already, he sat and waited quietly looking out the window, one ear on the tablet feed, his mind wandering over different scenarios and outcomes.
Within in minutes his food arrived, as always it was an immaculately prepared steak sandwich. The steak was real, no vat soy analogues here, the bread freshly baked, the cheese real dairy and tomatoes and lettuce fresh and crisp. Just what he needed.
Rob was part way through the meal when and alert flashed across his tablet from the New’s scraper he’d been running. 
“NEW ALERT DALTON”
He clicked the alert and he was taken to a dark site that scraped and reviewed any uploaded footage well before it was published, courtesy of Nova’s secret data scooping sites.
He pressed play.
Immediately he could see it was Jim Dalton, he was sitting in the bunker John had left him in, the servers serving as a menacing backdrop.
Fuck! 
Rob took out his earbuds so no one could hear the video, not that anyone would be listening in the dining room, each table was far enough away from each that conversations weren’t easily overheard, the dark wood panelled partitions topped with plants that separated the tables caught any stray words pretty effectively.
Jim was sitting looking directly into the camera and started talking.
“My name is Jim Dalton and I am alive and well, there is not need to concern yourself with my safety. I’m making this video as I am in possession of new information that will exonerate me completely from all the false allegations made against me.”
Rob shut off the video with Dalton mid-sentence, he didn;t have time to watch the rest of item, he had to leave now. His steak sandwich half eaten, he stood up and strode out of the Executive Dining Room without a word, he knew what this meant and he knew the consequences for him and Dalton were dire. 
He had to get to him before anyone else could, already a new scenario was playing out in his mind as he hit the elevator button for the ground floor.

#
John was sitting in his office his feet up on the desk leaning back and snoozing. He didn’t have much to do, the only project on his plate was Dalton and he was tucked away safely for now. The only thing John had to do was wait for Rob to make a decision on what to do next, he could have told him what to do, but John would rather watch Rob screw this up all by himself.
His dozing was interrupted by an alert chime, he cracked his eyes on to see what it was.
“NEW ALERT DALTON”
The data scoops had flagged something new for Dalton, he sat back up and clicked the alert, it linked through Nova dark site that had a video and data on the upload. John read the dat first to get a sense of what is was, often these were just innocuous uploads that he didn’t need to bother with. 
Not this one though, it had been uploaded directly to the Channel 7 tips server, which annoyingly meant he couldn’t pull it back and bury it if he needed to. Worth looking at then, he opened the video.
It was that fucking Jim Dalton, and he was sitting in the server room at the bunker, what the hell was he doing? 
John was fully awake now, shot of adrenalin coursing through his as the gravity of what he was seeing dawned on him, he listened intently.
“My name is Jim Dalton and I am alive and well, there is not need to concern yourself with my safety. I’m making this video as I am in possession of new information that will exonerate me completely from all the false allegations made against me.”
“First I need to tell you that the Greys are not responsible for this, the people who set me up are Nova Corp themselves. That’s right the corporate titans who we all look up are no above ruining a citizen’s life for thier own profit.”
“Don’t take me word for it, here’s the evidence”
The video switched to a view of the Apex Resturant, not the view that Rob and John had released, but a view from a security camera with a full view of the booth Rob and Dalton had lunch of that fateful day’
John watched the video in stunned silence, he saw Rob set up the camera they used to set up Dalton, he saw Rob pay the waitress to spill the wine. How did this video even exist, he was sure he scrubbed the restaurant’s security system throughly.
Dalton was back on screen
“What you just saw was Nova Corp executive Rob Hughes deliberately setting up the restaurant and staff to take me down. Why? I don’t know. Perhaps the people at the top don’t like the idea of someone form the Outer working thier way up to the top, or perhaps they just like playing with people. Either way you should ask Nova Corp CEO Shane Eldridge.”
The video ended.
John sat stock still, this was very bad. Dalton had just out Rob, which he could deal with, be he also outed Shane, which would set off a shit storm of epic proportions.
The desk phone rang, John answered it.
“Did you see that alert?” it was Shane.
“Yes sir, just now” John answered.
“Burn project 29 completely, I want nothing to come back to us, ever. That includes Hughes, understood” Shane said with just a hint of annoyance breaking his usual veneer of cheerfulness.
“Understood sir” 
The line went dead immediately.
#
John sprung into action, his lethargy of the previous few hours had been shattered by Shane’s clear directive; terminate Jim Dalton and Rob Hughes. This was a serious as it could get, but it was the opportunity John was hoping for. Rob had screwed up so badly he was getting burnt along with the subject. He relished the though of it actually, whilst Rob had recruited him into Nova, he’s grown to resent him, Rob treated him like a street enforcer when he had so much more to offer. As for Dalton that guy was just a total pain is the arse and he more than happy to shut him up.
He’d have to move fast, if he could catch Rob in the building, he could take him down to the basement where the Special Projects division had secure, and soundproof rooms.
John burst out of the lift on the 30th floor into the Executive dining room, the Manager tried to stop him, Level 7 did have access to this floor. John shoved him out of way and ran past the private rooms into the large dining room. He scanned the whole room and it was empty, John turned and barked at the waiter who was standing stock still gawking at him “Rob Hughes, where is he?”
The waiter pointed to the windows where a few table were obscured from view by dark wooden partitions topped with plants that spilled over the edges in cascade of lush green. “He’s sitting in the middle table, I just served him lunch, are you supposed to be here?”
John ignored the waiter and bolted over to the window to find and empty seat, but not an empty table. Rob’s half eaten steak sandwich still on the plate, John put the back of his hand onto, it was still warm. Damn Rob must have seen the video too and just bolted. John had to give him grudging credit for understand the situation so quickly.
The manager had caught up with him and started dressing him down.
“Sir you are not authorised to be in the area, this is restricted for Level 9 executives only. Please leave immediately.” John could see two security guards making their way into the dining room.
He didn’t have time for this, Rob could still be in the building. “Here’s my card, write me up later” He pushed past, but the security guards blocked him. John didn’t fancy fighting his was past these two.
He stopped before they could grab him and snatched the card away from the Manager’s hand and passed it over to one of the guards. 
“John Kessler, Senior Agent, Special Projects division, look me up” said John. 
Most of the time he avoided name dropping, but everyone at Nova knew about the Special Projects division, though now one outside the division knew what they did. It was mostly rumours and legends, and its was well known SPD agents had a direct line to Shana.
The guard verified his ID on his tablet and handed the card back.
“Anything we can help you with Mr Kessler?” He asked full of due reverence. 
“Get the fuck out on my way is what you can do” John pushed past them and headed for the lift. 
He pressed the button for the carpark and saw the two guards and the Manager still starting as the doors closed. Fucking idiots though John.
John knew exactly where Rob parked his car, he’d been in his car many times over the years. The car was still sitting quietly in it’s allocated car spot, still plugged in to its charger. He hadn’t left in his car then.
John rummaged around in his jacket and pulled what looked like a small black puck about and inch in diameter and half as thick. He leant over the front of the car and dropped it onto the hood, just above where the console was inside, it stuck like a magnet and beeped once. The device would lock the car down until John released it, Rob was not getting out of here in that.
He was already on the way back up to the 37th floor where the SPD had it’s tactical ops centre that was plugged into all the feeds from the city; he’d find Rob pretty quickly. when his hone rang, it was Shane.
“Update”
“Yes Sir, Hughes must have seen the video at the same time as we did. He’s bolted, left his car behind, left half his lunch behind too.” John couldn’t help to dig at Rob.
“I’m headed to the Ops room to track him down right now”
“No John, Hughes is not first priority, first priority is to stop Dalton from doing anymore damage, then you can join up the search for Hughes. I’ve got other agents on him now.”
“Yes Sir” John answered.
“Oh and John, don’t fuck this up, I’m not in the mood to burn a second staff member today”. The line went dead as usual. 
John had no intention of joining Rob today, but the treat still made him shiver.

#
Rob knew he only had one chance to get out of this alive, and it was a fifty-fifty chance at best. When he bolted from the Nova Corp building, he knew exactly where he needed to go. He calculated he had maybe ten or twenty minutes head start before they realised where he was going. 
Rob knew what happened to his predecessor in the SPD, because he did it. Head of the division wasn’t a position you retired from, eventually you got retired. Knowing this, he’d set up a series of back-ups and contingencies from day one in case he ever had to run, just like we was today.
He’d arrived at the data scoop bunker where Neil was holed up in a public taxi using a fake citizenship profile, that was the easy part, he needed to see if the profile would open the door.
Rob held his breath as he swiped the door, if it didn’t open he knew had to leave the city completely, perhaps never to come back. If it did he’d have to deal with Jim, the man who’s life he ruined.
The door clicked open and Rob pushed it open a silently as possible and snuck down the stairs. he knew the layout of these bunkers, he’d helped design them when he first took over the SPD.
This was it, with a deep breath he open the door into the main room. Jim was standing in the middle of the room holding a large kitchen knife.
“Rob fucking Hughes, the prick who set me up and ruined my life. I never thought I’d get the chance to exact revenge on you, but here you are of all people to turn up in this little Nova Corp jail you’ve got me locked in” Jim said, Rob could tell he was on the verge of losing it completely, the kife was shaking with pent up fury.
Rob put his hand up to stop Jim from coming any close “Wait Jim, you’ve got every right to be angry with me, but that knife isn’t going to help, we’ve got bigger issues right now.”
“We, we don’t have any issue, right now you have the issue, and its convincing me not to stab you right here and now you piece of shit” Jim advanced towards Rob slowly.
Rob backed away and put the small sofa between them.
Still holding his hands up Rob said “Jim, there’ll be time for you to get revenge on me later, right now the full force on Nova corp with be on the way here to kill you and make everything you’ve touched disappear.”
Jim paused “What do you mean aren’t you some Nova Corp bigwig”
“As soon as you dropped that last video, I joined you as a problem to be killed off, we don’t have much time someone will be here any minute know we’ve got to get out.” Shane said. 
Was he getting through to Jim? he didn’t know.
Jim kept the knife point at Rob, but stopped moving forward. “How did I know any of this is true? You, Shane and Nova have been lying to me from the very beginning. Maybe I get out here and leave you to your friends.”
“That won’t help, they won’t stop until they find you. you’ll be on the run forever.” said Rob. 
“I’ve done fine on my own so far” countered Jim.
“From where I’m standing you’re trapped in a Nova Corp bunker with me and any minute now Nova agents will come in that door and kill both of us” Rob said;
He didn’t have time to go around in circles with Jim, he had to make the pitch and it needed to land thought Rob, he continued “More importantly Jim, I’m a Level 9 at Nova, I know exactly what we did and why we we did it. That information is gold for you Jim, you can take it to your friends in the Greys, or keep it to yourself, doesn;t matter to me, but if you let them kill me, you’ll never know why.”
Rob could see that hooked Jim, the knife dropped as he thought about it. 
Now to push the point “Jim, if we get out of here, right now, I’ll tell you whatever you want, but we’ve got to move!” Rob said with a real sense of urgency, he could almost feel Nova breathing down his neck.
Just at that moment they both heard the outer door open.
Rob simply said “It’s them”




















CHAPTER 20

KINETIC (JIM, ROB, JOHN 1)

Jim reacted first, the door to the stair was still open, he called out “John, is that you?”
He gestured frantically for Rob to go into the server room and hide himself. Jim wasn’t sure if Rob was telling the truth or not, but just in case he didn’t want John to see him.
No sooner had Rob ducked in the server room, when John hit the bottom of the stairs. Jim was watching from the middle of the room, the knife hastily tucked into his pants behind his back.
John glanced for a moment at the open door to the main room that was normally shut. “Yes Jim, who else would it be?” he asked lightly.
Jim didn’t answer immediately he subtly shifted across the room as Jonh walked over to the kitchenette, keeping the couch in between them.
“So Jim, want to tell me what the fuck you were doing with that video?” Jim asked, still keeping the light tone, but this time his eye betrayed him, he was anything but friendly. He poured a cup from the coffee pot and sat at the small table.
Jim stayed where he was, he didn’t answer, not because he didn’t want to, but because he didn’t know what to say.
“Not going to answer? Ok then, we’ll do it this way” John pulled out a sleek dark semi- automatic pistol and placed it on the table in front of him the end of the barrel pointing at Jim.
He continued “I’m going to ask some questions, and you are going to answer each one of them without hesitation and you need to be telling me the truth.”
Jim was frozen in his spot, what good would a couch and knife against the pistol,
John took Jim’s silence as confirmation he understood.
“Now I’m a good guy and I genuinely want to help you out, so if everything you say is the truth and helps me out, there’s a chance you could get out of this alive. I’ve got to tell you the guys upstairs don’t care one way or the other.” He sipped at his cup, savouring the flavour.
The mention of John’s bosses brought Jim out of his state “You mean Shane? Fuck Shane, fuck you and Nova” Jim spat out.
John chuckled “We’ll I can’t say I disagree, but seeing as they pay me, quite well actually, I’m going to have to start getting some answers.”
“Firstly, how did you get the security video of Rob at Apex?
Did Jim tell him the truth that an anonymous source contacted him via the terminal in the server room know Rob was hiding in there. That didn’t feel right.
“I’ve had it for days on data stick, the Greys gave it to me when I was with them, I just needed a way to get it out.” said Jim and confidently as he could.
John was quiet for a moment taking it Jim’s word but scrutinising Jim standing there at the same time, he spoke up “Ok Jim, that’s good, see ho easy this can be, if the rest of out chat goes like this I think we can convince Shane to keep you around”
Jim didn’t believe a word John said, he needed to come up with a plan quickly, or he was dead.
John spoke again “Next question Jim, how did you get the video out?”
This was it, the play he needed “I sent it out via the one of the terminals in there” he pointed to the server room”
John frowned “Now Jim, what did I say about lying to me, you’re no hacker and I need to wrap this up, I’ve got other people to see today” he said cryptically.
“No, no, it’s true, the Greys were training me to hack terminals when I was with them, I’m no expert but I can get out a closed system like this… I can show you” He said with just the right amount of desperation in his voice, he hoped.
John nodded, stood up and picked up the pistol, the barrel never straying from pointed directly at Jim “Ok, show me.” he said.

#
Jim walked slowly over to the server room hoping he’d give Rob a few more second to work out what he was going to do, Jim was not making a move under the barrel of John’s pistol, it was on Rob now.
He went inside the room, the door had been left open there hadn’t been enough time to close it before John came into the main rom. That John could see into the room the whole time must have made him confident Jim was alone.
Jim almost froze again when he got inside the room was empty, John who had been three steps behind him, poked the barrel into Jim’s back and gruffly said “Get on with it.”
Jim panicked as he sat down at the first terminal, was Rob even there? Had he imagined the whole thing? He was absolutely sure there was no way out, it took all Jim’s resolve not to look around.
Jim said as nonchalantly as he could muster “Give me a few seconds to get into the system.” 
He started tapping away in what he hoped look like some sort of terminal operating script, John was watching over his shoulder.
Neither of them saw Rob sneak out from behind one of the fridge-sized server racks, his movements disguised by the hum of the cooling fans. He held a side panel off one of the racks in both hands.
He took two step towards John and lifted the panel high and brought it down on the back of John’s head will all the force he could gather. John must have felt the air whoosh against him as the panel dropped down and turned at the last moment. The panel hit a glancing blow on the side of John’s head, it still bent in half and was jolted out of Rob’s grasp, such was the force of the blow.
John staggered to his left further into the room, one hand instinctively going to his head, the other however still held the pistol. He yelled out “What the fuck! who was that?”
Rob stood and watched John stagger around, he’d hadn’t planned for John to still be standing. 
Jim could see Rob wasn’t moving and burst of the chair to tackle John to the floor. He yelled to Rob “Grab the gun!” as he and John fell to the floor.
Rob pounced onto John’s arm that was still holding onto the gun despite having ben hit over the head and tackled to the floor. He grabbed John’s wrist with both hands and slammed John’s hand to the floor, he didn’t let go, but the pistol did. A single shot discharged reverberating loudly in the room, everyone’s ears rang painfully with the sound. The bullet went directly into one of the servers and the metal shards being ejected out the other side into the walls behind.
Jim was wrestling with John hoping to keep him on the floor and subduing him, but he was losing the battle. John was using his free hand to punch Jim in the side repeatedly. He could hit hard, Jim was already winded, he didn’t know how long he could last. 
John was yelling at the both of them as the three of them scrabbled around on the floor “Get off me you arseholes, you’re both dead, you’re not leaving this room.” 
Jim yelled at Rob again “Get that gun” Rob stood up and and stomped on John’s hand, John yelled in pain as Rob broke half the bones in his hand with that one stomp, but it did the trick, he let go of the gun. 
Rob getting up to stomp the hand released the pressure of two men on top of John and Jim lost the battle to keep hold of him. John pushed Jim off and and stood up holding his broken had down to one side. 
He grabbed with his good hand and Rob and brought him in close “I’ve always wanted to do this, you prick” he sneered as be brought his head back and planted a swift headbutt onto the ridge of Rob’s nose, breaking it immediately. Rob staggered backwards, blinded as blood poured out of his nose.
John whipped around to see Jim was now back on his feet and he lunged for him, grabbing for this throat. The forward movement stopped suddenly as John froze, his hand was on Jim’s neck, but it wasn’t squeezing. They both looked down, Jim was holding the handle of the kitchen knife, he had tucked into the back of his pants. The blade was buried deep into John’s abdomen. 
John crumbled to the floor, the fight was over. Jim stood and surveyed the room, all of the furniture had been pushed around as if the room had done a spin cycle, John was barely conscious cradling the knife still stuck in him, Rob was slumped against one of the server racks, his face in his hands, at least the bleeding looked to have stopped. The terminals were bleeping with all sorts of alarms and server rack that got shot was now starting to smoked, the acrid smell of burning circuits was filling the room.
Jim, ignoring John, grabbed to pistol from under one of the upturned chairs and help Rob to his feet. “I think we should get out here” he said his voice shaking as the adrenalin left his system.
Rob only nodded and they walked out of the server together leaning on each for support and leaving John to his fate.
#
Within minutes, Jim and Rob were sitting in the back of an Autocab. Rob had used his burner I.D. to pay for it so they were safe for now. They had time for Rob to splash water on his face and grab a spare shirt from the supplied before the bolted out of the bunker.
According to the console, they had twenty or so minutes to get to thier destination. Jim wasn’t sure where Rob was taking them, right now anywhere away from the bunker was good with him. 
Neither of them had spoken since the fight with John. It was all Jim could think about, the sudden brutal violence and the aftermath. He held his hand so Rob wouldn’t see them shaking. He didn’t want to speak and give voice to what he was thinking; how they left John semi-conscious and bleeding it a room rapidly filling with smoke. Jim might be able to justify what he did to defend himself, but leaving the man for dead was not sitting well with him at all.
Rob was sitting with his head back, a towel from the bunker pressed up against his nose, although it had stopped bleeding. He eyes were closed and he was making no move to tell Jim where they were going. Jim followed suit and closed his eyes, the autocab would get them where they were going without any input from them.
Jim must have dozed and Rob nudged him awake.
“Where here” Rob said.
Jim looked out the window, they were back in city centre. 
Alarmed, he asked Rob “What are we doing back here?”
“Relax, I’ve got a safe site here I set up years ago… just in case, I have days like today. We’ll stop here for the night, get ourselves cleaned up and then get the hell out of the city tomorrow” Rob said, his eyes were starting to swell in the aftermath of John’s headbutt.
Jim moved to open the door, but Rob grabbed him and simply said “Wait.”
Rob reached into his jacket pocket pulling out what looked like the white ping pong ball on the ned of a short stick. He pressed a button on the bottom, a small green indictor light flashed on the side of the stick.
“This will blind all the cameras that can see us, but it only last about 30 seconds before it discharges, so when we get out we need to be through the foyer and into a lift before than happens, otherwise Nova will find us. I’m going to need to hold this at eye level, so you need to swipe this pass to open to doors and call the lift” Rob said as he handed a white access card over to Jim.
“What about inside the building?” Jim asked.
“Taken care of ages ago, Ready?”
Jim nodded and prepared himself for bolt into the building.
Ok, stay close to me, lets go… now!”
Jim slammed the autocab door open, and they both burst out of the door and sprinted across the footpath to the front door, Jim swiped the access card and they were both through the doors before they finished opening. Rob was holding the white ball of the stick right next to thier faces the whole time.
Thankfully, the lift doors opened as soon as they got to them and they scrambled in. The doors closed, the lift has automatically selected thier floor, the 12th. 
Rob let out a big sign of relief as if they were safe now, Jim didn’t, he been promised safety before and so far it have never turned out to be real.
#
The apartment was a simple small one bedroom unit located in a nondescript residential building on the fringes of the city. It was close enough so someone could get to it from the city centre in a matter of minutes, but not so close as to be part of the hustle of the central business district. It made Jim wish he’d though of something like it, he might not be where he was now if he had a place to hide out when the shit hit the fan. It location made Jim wonder why Rob came all the out to the Reach to talk to him.
The main room was barely furnished, a cheap couch was the only concession to comfort, there were no other chairs, no tables, no pictures. The curtains were drawn in the main room and Jim pushed one of aside to see the view, he coudn’t see out though. the window was covered in an opaque film.
Rob saw him looking and said “The film blocks most radio waves and all peeping eyes. I’m going to grab a shower, there a little bit of food in the cupboard, help yourself.” 
That’s when Jim realised what else was missing, there was no fridge, just a space where one would be. There was no kettle or toaster either, this was no a place to stop and have a meal.
He opened the cupboards and found a few bottles of water and some dry snacks, he helped himself and sat down in the couch. At least there was a good sized TV, so he flicked it on.
The news was set at the default feed and he could tile after tile showing his face, it looked like every channel was cover his story right now. That’s exactly what he’d planned. He clicked on the Channel 7 news feed.
“… and that’s the latest we have on the breaking update about executive turned fugitive Jim Dalton. After five days in hiding, Dalton resurfaces with a shocking new video accusing Nova Corp and Nova Corp CEO Shane Eldridge of manufacturing the incident at the exclusive Level 8 restaurant Apex. Eldridge has not responded to requests for comment directly, but a Nova spokesperson has said that the action of Rob Hughes actions were not planned or authorised by Nova and they are investigating the incident themselves and that Hughes has been terminated effective immediately. We’ll bring you more on this breaking story as it comes to hand…”
“And that’s how they fuck you completely” Rob said. 
Jim jumped, hadn’t heard Rob come into the room. He’d changed into a new set of clothes, what looked like a brand new set, they still had the creases from being folded in thier packaging on them. His eyes were still half closed due to swelling but he could look Jim in the eyes.
“Not fun is it what someone fucks you over” spat out Jim, he didn’t have much sympathy for Rob.
He wasn’t happy at all being stuck in this empty apartment with Rob, but Jim was learning that pragmatism and patience was sometimes the better policy.
Rob was rummaging through the kitchen for some food, finding a bag of trail mix, he turned around and leaned against the kitchen bench and looked at Jim.
I took a second to for Jim to realise Rob was waiting for him to speak, he didn’t need an invitation, the questions had been in his mind from the day the first video hit the net and the list had grown since then.
In reality, there was only one question he needed an answer to.
 “Why? Why did you set me up? You fucking ruined my life you arsehole” Jim said with an anger that surprised him.
Rob seemed to know the question was coming “Jim it really wasn’t about you, it’s not even about me, actually it’s not about any one person at all, there’s a much bigger game at play…”
Jim interrupted “I don’t give a shit about your big picture, I’m a wanted fugitive, I’ve lost my wife, my house, everything I worked for over the last twenty years, seems pretty fucking personal to me.”
Rob let Jim have his say, when Jim was done he put his hands up and said “Jim, I get it, I really do, especially right now, but you’ll never understand why, until you know the bigger picture”
“Go on then, explain it to me like I’m a five year old” Jim said cynically.
Rob turned around and splashed some cold water on his face, he opened a drawer under the counter. It was full of medical supplies and he picked out some painkillers, gulped a mouthful of water and swallowed three on them in one hit.
“Ok Jim, and this is important, what I‘m going to tell you will get both you and killed if you tell the wrong people, be very careful who you give this information to.” Rob said very deliberately.
“Sure thing” said Jim and shrugged his shoulders, the threat of getting killed was wearing thin now. Did he believe Rob, sure, did it matter to Jim right now, no.
Rob saw the shrug, Jim could see him calculate his response for a split second, like he’d decided to go on regardless, he continued.
“Jim, you’re just a pawn in a bigger game played by Nova Corp and it’s rivals. They use people like you to push and prod at each other, always trying to gain an advantage, to gain power over each other” Rob explained.
Jim sat in stony silence, the story Rob was telling him sound true, but it didn’t explain to why he was chosen. He asked “Ok, so big business runs the place, not something I didn’t already know, you still haven’t told me why you picked me to screw over.”
Rob’s face wore that calculating look again for a split second, it occurred to Jim that if not for the injury and fatigue Rob was carrying, he might never had caught those glimpses of the mask slipping.
“Up until a few hours ago, I ran the Special Projects Division at Nova, Jim you personally were one of those, project 29 to be exact.” said Rob.
“What do you mean I was a project?” asked Jim genuinely confused now.
Rob leaned forward and said “Jim, Nova Corp mines every test, every citizen does, ever. From primary school, to university, to corporate psychometric tests, nominally it’s to find the best and brightest to come and work for them. 
“The truth is we are looking for people we can mould to our will, to find hooks we can manipulate to get people to do what we want. You were flagged as someone who had very high resilience, off the charts almost, and strong will.”
“Combine that with the street smarts of growing up in as a Level 5 in the Outer, and Nova has been watching you since you were ten years old.”
Jim just didn’t have the bandwidth to be shocked or angry anymore, he’d just been told that his whole life now was one long manipulation, how much of it was real at all?
Jim was suddenly very tired “So what was the point of destroying my life?” he asked.
“I don’t know you’d have to ask Shane. Only he knows what he wanted. If I’d have to guess, you were used to create a news story to distract us from something else he was doing. What that might be, I don’t know.” Rob shrugged his shoulders.
“So I was just an expendable prop to be discarded?” Jim asked incredulous at the cold impersonality of it all.
“You’ve go to understand these people Jim, these CEO’s, they play a game we have no idea about. They don’t just control the system, they are outside the system… we are like ants to them.” said Rob, his swollen eyes now were starting to turn all sorts of colours.
“I’ve got to got down for a few hours, I can see of think anymore”
Jim could tell Rob was holding something back, dealing out just enough information to keep him hooked, but he wasn’t going to get more out of him tonight.
“I’ll take the bed you take the couch and we’ll work out what to do in the morning.” said Rob.
Jim, was still processing everything he’d heard, he knew need rest, perhaps a few hours would help him decide how to react and what to do. He just nodded and Rob went into the bed room and lay on the bed, there were no sheets, just a mattress, but that didn’t matter to Rob at all.
Within seconds Rob was asleep leaving Jim to sit in the quiet and think, not long after though he succumbed to the need to rest too.

#
Jim sleep awkwardly on the couch, his mind was subconsciously churning over what Rob had told him the day before. His dreams were disruptive and full of doom, not that he could remember them now that he was awake. He’s woken up early, or so he thought, the blind and the film on the windows blocking any light from outside. When he flicked on the TV, muting the volume so and not to disturb Rob, who needed the sleep more than Jim did, he was surprised to see it was a little after lunch. He didn’t feel like he’d slept so long, his body now cold and stiff, the throbbing pain in his ribs came flowing back now the he was awake and sitting up. He’d be surprised if John hadn’t broken a rib or two.
The news feed was more of the same, still the breathless analysis of his video across multiple channels, but nothing new. The heat was already dying down though, as local accidents, government scandals and celebrity gossip pushed the new cycle inexorably forward.
Jim heard Rob stirring in the other room and waited in silence for him to surface. when his did Jim could see that whilst his eyes and nose were a lot less swollen, half of his face was now turning a deep purple.
Without a weary glance and nod at Jim, Rob raided the drugs drawer and gulped down more painkillers. He opened a few of the wall cabinets and grabbed two Nova Corp branded mugs, they were only ones in the cupboard. From another cabinet he grabbed two sachets of instant coffee, ripped them open and poured them into the mugs. Without a kettle, Rob just simply ran the hot water and filled the cups to the brim.
He handed on of the cups to Jim along with the box of painkillers and sat down on the floor opposite Jim, he back leaning against the wall. Jim took both gladly.
Rob spoke first “How are you holding up this morning?” he asked.
“Battered and bruised, but I’ll survive” answered Jim.
There are a silence as the they sipped the coffee, it was terrible, but it was warm and the caffeine was real.
Jim broke the silence “So what are our options here?”
Rob thought for a second “The way I see it we have three options, one, we just get out of the city, head east or west, it doesn’t matter. The cities out there are not quite as connected as here in the Capital. The CEB and Nova will follow us eventually, but we’ve got a good chance of hiding out for a while.”
Jim shook his head “I’m not leaving my city for some toxic shit hole out, you can barely call them cities anyway, what are the other options?”
Rob shrugged “We can probably safely hide out in here for a few more days until I can set up something more permanent. Nova will have a team scouring everything I’ve done for the last ten years, they find this place eventually.”
Jim shook his head again “That doesn’t seem like much of a plan, wait for either the CEB or Nova to finds us, not doing that.” 
Jim paused, he looked directly at Rob and said “I know you didn’t risk your life to come and rescue me from the bunker when you could have just come straight here and left me to John. You’ve got a plan, you’ve always had one, stop buttering me up and just tell me.”
Rob chuckled and looked Jim up and down as if appraising him all over again “You’re getting better at this, there’s that resilience and intelligence shining through. Sure I’ve got a plan, you don’t get to where I got without running contingencies on contingencies. Right now my plan is really simple; the enemy of my enemy is my friend.”
Jim just stared at him, what did he actually man? Then it dawned on him “Are you fucking crazy? The Greys? I didn’t exactly leave them on the best terms, if they find me they’ll likely kill me, and they’ll certainly kill you. You don’t know Vex, she’s not one to fuck around when you cross her.
Rob leaned forward “Jim you still don’t really understand the game, it’s not about loyalty, it’s about leverage. You and I represent the single biggest defections that the Greys could ever dream of. Trust me on this, if they are as smart as I think they are, they’ll know it too.”
Jim didn’t think fro a second that he personally was some of sort of golden egg that Vex would want back, but he could absolutely believe Rob was. 
“Ok, say we do this, what’s to stop you selling me down the river to save yourself?” Jim asked.
“Nothing, you shouldn’t trust me, you shouldn’t trust anyone. What I will say is that video you released took the heat off them and dumped Nova in the shit big time, I suggest you leverage that.” Rob said.
Jim contemplated all his options, he hated to admit it, but Rob’s idea was the only where they didn’t get killed by Nova eventually. The Greys may still kill them, but it wasn’t a certainty. He knew Rob had his own agenda, and he was going to do his best to uncover it, but Jim wasn’t going to sit around in the apartment any longer.
“You need to get a car, not a taxi this time, an untraceable private car that won’t stand out, no matter where we go, can you do that?” Jim asked.
Rob smiled a wry smile “There’s one downstairs, ready to go”
Of course there was thought Jim.
“Then lets get the hell out of here” said Jim.
























CHAPTER 21

ENEMY OF MY ENEMY (JIM, & ROB)

Jim was impressed at the lengths Rob had gone to planning his secret bolt hole. The apartment, while not a place one could live in, it was fully stocked with all the things you could want if you were planning to escape and go off grid. They prepared themselves as much as they could for what they knew would be a dangerous game they were entering. 
Jim didn’t know how long it would take to find the Greys, but if his hunch was correct they would be out looking for him, along with Nova Corp agents and the CEB. It was a matter of being found by the least worst group first, the consequences of getting it wrong were deadly.
Both of them pocketed a slab of painkillers each, and after eating an unsatisfying meal of dry snacks, mostly stale VatSoy crisps, chased down by more of the awful frozen coffee they made the move.
Jim hesitated at the door of the apartment.
“What about the cameras in the building, are you bringing that camera blinder?” He asked.
“No, the blinder is single use, it send out enough UV waves to fry itself eventually. Don’t worry about the cameras in here, I took care of them ages ago, they don’t record and they aren’t connected to the net. We’re good until we get outside, then its only a matter of time before we’re picked-up.” Rob said as they walked out into the corridor, he carefully wiped down the handle and door to erase and trace of them on the outside of the apartment. 
One way or the other they were getting found thought Jim, he felt a clock start ticking somewhere in the back if his mind. 
“We’ve got to get found by the Greys quickly, it would help if you told me where were going?” said Rob.
“I don’t know the exact address, but I’ll know where it is when we get close. You drive and I’ll direct you.” answered Jim, leverage he thought.
Half way down the corridor to the lift, Rob took the cloth he wiped the door with and the door key and dumped them both down the garbage chute.
“We won’t be back” he said matter of factly.
A growing sense of unease was now settling on Jim, it felt like they were jumping off a ship in the middle of the ocean. The next few hours would determined if they drowned or not.
#
The car Rob had stashed in the basement carpark turned out to be an old diesel van. It looked like it had been some sort of delivery van in its previous life, but that was clearly many years ago. 
When Jim saw it he scoffed. “That old thing, it looks like it’ll break down after a block”
“Jim you’ve got to start thinking more clearly if you want to survive.” Rob said as they got in. 
“This old diesel is basically untraceable, if they do find use they can’t shut it down either, see, no console. Just a good old analogue machine, it took me ages to find one like this that still worked.”
“Well as long as it gets us out to the Scar territory” said Jim.
“The Scar Territory, I should have guessed” Rob nodded and they drove out of the building.
It was roughly a forty-five minute drive to get out to the Scar Territory, but they were at thier most vulnerable leaving the city centre. There were so many more cameras and people in the densely packed and bustling city centre. Jim was sure he felt the eyes of every other driver, passenger and pedestrian staring right at him. Any moment now someone would sound the alarm that a fugitive was driving in a battered old  through the city. A month ago he wouldn’t have hesitated, being the first to notify of a fugitive on the loose would have earn’t him a bucket load of points for being a civic minded citizen.
They drove in silence for the next fifteen or so minutes, Rob full of concentration manually driving the van through the bust streets, he wasn’t following any map route, just moving in the right direction.
Jim breathed a sigh of relief as the city faded away into the leafy affluent suburbs of the Green that surrounded the city like a well manicured moat. 
Rob spoke up “Are we going north or south of the bridge.”
“Go north of it, do a few loops around the outer before we get there, let’s see if we can get the Greys interest.” said Jim.
“Do you have a place in mind after that?” Rob asked.
“Were heading to a safe house a only few blocks from the Scar well into the abandoned zone”
Rob nodded in acknowledgement.
About twenty minutes later a nervous silence had settled inside the Van, both men caught in thier own thoughts. Rob had just driven a meandering circuity around the Outer, driving past as many shops and markets as he could find.
He broke the quiet of the van “We’ve picked up a friend I think, take a look.”
Jim got out of his and moved into back of the van to look through one of the openings in the paint covering them.
“Green sedan?” He called up to Rob as he saw the old green sedan about six cars back follow them around a right hand turn.
“I think so” Rob said as he executed series of random turns, 
“Yep still there” called Jim from the back as the green car stayed behind them, but didn’t get any closer.
Jim was about to go back to his seat when he saw another car that seemed to be shadowing the green sedan. This was car however, was a high end white SUV that was definitively not the Greys.
He jumped back into his seat and told Rob “I think we’ve picked up a second tail.”
Rob looked back through the side mirror and saw the white SUV. “Shit, that’s definitely Nova, I know those cars”
“What do we do?” Rob was getting anxious.
“We get the hell out of here” Rob floored the accelerator and the old van lurched forward, for the next few minutes Rob headed in straight line directly to the Scar territory. Jim held on as he sped though intersections and stop signs and weaved in an out of traffic, the old van felt like it was going to tip over any moment now.
The green was white cars followed suit, any pretence of hanging back was discarded.
“We’re never going to lose them in this old thing” Jim said, his eyes glued to the mirrors.
“No we won’t, and this won’t last much longer” He could see the engine temp gauge was stuck firmly in the red.
“There!” Jim yelled as pointed to a ramshackle street market a few blocks ahead of them.
“Got it, be ready to jump and sprint, I’m going to be in your hip pocket, you need to lead the way here, this is your realm.” Rob barked back, sweat now dripping down his face form man handling the van.
The market came up quickly, Rob slowed down with the traffic and then violently ripped the van down an alley just next to the mains street of markets. They both jumped out and spirited, Rob hadn’t turned the van off or put the brakes on. It stopped only when it veered off track and slid screeching its metal side down the walls of he alley, the bricks finally dragging it to a stop. The engine gave up and overheated, releasing a torrent of hot steam creating an instant dirty vapour cloud that obscured Rob and Jim from the entrance they just drove in.
Thankfully this alley connected to others and lead them deep into the market, Jim and Rob kept running, not looking back.

#
Jim slowed, his ribs were aching and he was out of breath badly, he just couldn’t keep running. Rob was right behind him, breathing heavily too, his nose starting to ooze blood, and his eyes were black and purple. It was a far cry from the arrogant and immaculately dressed Level 9 executive Jim had met at the Apex restaurant what seemed like a lifetime ago.
Jim had to stop and get his bearings, he wasn’t exactly sure where they were. This market, like many others that had organically grown up on the outskirts of the Outer, was a place for black market suppliers who would take anything, but credits, in payment. Nothing was ever reported out here and the Government never bothered coming out to clean it up. 
He dragged Rob up a small set of stairs to the first level gallery that gave them a view of the people below. Jim could see this was a big market, it would have started out at as an ordinary shopping strip, but over time it had completely taken over and blocked the street. At some point some a government official had the grand idea to build an awning that spanned across the street creating a covered market five city blocks long.
Jim knew where he was now, he’d never been to this market when he grew up in the Outer, but he knew all about it. This place had been notorious well before Jim was born, but more importantly he knew where it was in relation to their destination.
“What’s plan Jim? we can’t stay here” said Rob.
“We’ll go up and out, where about thirty minutes from the safe house on foot” he said pointing to more stairs that led up to the second gallery level.
They were just coming our of the stairwell, when Rob grabbed Jim and pushed him back into the shadows.
“Don’t move, they won’t see use here.” He pointed to three men pushing thier way through the crowd down on the main street. Unlike the rest of the public, these men were clearly not from the Outer. Not only was thier clothing out of place, but so were thier haircuts, thier square jaws and even the way they walked. People we starting to look at them.
“Those three are Nova Corp agents, the clean-up team, I know them well. The shit has really hit the fan if they are getting called out” Rob said as they peeked out of the shadows. “Get us out of here quickly”
We need to find a store up here that has a back door, most of them will be blocked but one of them up here will still be open. Let’s go and keep as close to the wall as possible.” Jim said.
They moved slowly creeping along the wall, peering into the shops as they made their way down the gallery. Rob kept an eye on the street below, the three agents were drawing more attention, clearly the crowd didn’t like outsiders.
Jim found a shop that had been abandoned and went inside to check for a rear door, as he expected it had been blocked off, but only with cheap boards that looked like they’d been there for years. He pushed at them and made a fist sized hole easily. This was thier way out.
Jim went to tell Rob he’d found a way out, Rob was standing still, looking down at the main street, Jim’s eyes followed. 
A confrontation was brewing down there, the Nova Agents in the middle of it. A group of local men had stopped them and were starting to ask questions, but neither Jim or Rob could hear what was being said from up on the second gallery level.
I was starting to get heated, the shouting and hadn gesture was escalating, snippets of words 
“They don’t take well to authority our here, locals probably thing they are CEB, which is bad luck for them” said Jim.
One of the agents who had been trying to calm the situation looked up at the same moment both Jim and Rob where looking down at him.
He immediately pointed to them, the words “There, that’s them!” made thier way clearly up to Jim and Rob.
The agents started to push through the crowd, who all of a sudden pushed back, a punch was thrown, then another, in a flash to mod turned violent raining down blows on the three men.
Jim knew where this was headed, he didn’t need to see any more, he grabbed Rob and they bolted through the shop to the back door, without stopping Jim used thier body weight to crash through the panels. They burst through into a back staircase which they flew down, the bottom of the staircase led to a back door which was not locked and the two of them ran out onto the street behind the markets. 
It was mostly empty of people and cars, anyone outside had gravitated towards the commotion inside. Jim slowed them to a brisk walk to not draw attention just in case, they crossed over the street and turned down the first corner they came too. Jim wanted tp put distance between them and the market quickly.

#
After a few blocks and random turn to see if they’d been followed out, Jim slowed the pace down. He actually couldn’t go any faster, he was pretty sure his ribs were broken, each deep breath was accompanied by sharp pain. He looked over to Rob who was faring slightly better. His nose had stopped bleeding, but the eyes we still half closed and looking decidedly worse than a few hours ago. 
The market was an informal signpost that defined the edge of the living city, as they walked further east towards to toxic quagmire of the miles wide Scar, more and more of the city was abandoned. The buildings were boarded up and left years ago, no one wanted to risk getting poisoned by the toxic fogs that were rumoured to blow in from the Scar. Jim had heard those stories all his life, but having been out there only a few days ago, he wasn’t so convinced those stories were completely true.
Ten minutes later, the streets and building were completely abandoned, apart from the sound of thier own footsteps, it was silent. Jim could relax slightly, he would be able to hear a car from blocks away out here and he didn’t think the three Nova agents would get out of the market any time soon. Now he just needed to find a familiar landmark that would lead him to the Grey safe house.
Rob spoke “You do know where you’re going don’t you?
“I do, just be patient, we’re getting really close.”
A foul smell wafted over them, it was a terrible concoction of rotten eggs and diesel fuel, both Jim and Rob grimaced and coughed at the smell. It passed withing a few seconds, but reminded them both they were a long way from the the city.
They rounded a corner and Jim saw it, the shop he hidden out in when he first escaped from the safe house. He walked over to it, the frantic escape of only a few days ago fresh in his mind, he pictured his path that, now the he was standing here, he could see it easily.
“We’re a block away, get ready, I have no idea how this is going to go” Jim Said
Rob nodded, he stood up straighter and shook his arms and stretch his neck to release some tension. He looked at Jim, the follower now gone, the corporate shark in his place like he’d just slipped on a familiar mack. 
He said with clear voice “I’m ready, remember leverage is the game here, only give them what you need too.”
With that, Jim lead them down the alleyway opened out onto the street where the safe house was. 
Except is wasnt, where the safe house used to be was a smouldering ruin, the central townhouse had been burnt completely to the ground. In fact the none of the townhouses in the row had been spared, they were all in various states of destruction, those closest to the safe house had suffered the same fate, the house a few doors down were still standing but there was nothing inside, most of the roofs had collapsed leaving smoking piles inside precariously leaning brick walls. Only the alleyways on each end of the row had stopped the flames.
Jim surveyed the scene with shock, he yelled to no one in particular “Fuck!”
“What’s going on? Was that where we were supposed to go?” he asked.
Jim didn’t answer straight away, he need to get his anger and disappointment in check.
“Jim, what the fuck is going on?” Rob pressed.
“Fuck it, this was where we were going, it’s a Grey safe house that I was in just a few days ago.” Did they get caught wondered Jim.
Rob shook his head as he looked at the scene of devastation “Jim, just when I think you’re getting the game, you disappoint me.”
Jim wasn’t really listening, he’d walked over the the ruin and was staring into the smoking ashed hoping to come up with some inspiration.
Rob followed him and continued “Didn’t you run away from here? It’s obvious they burnt the place in case you told someone about it, Jim you did this.”
Jim knew it was true.
“So, go any other ideas, it’s getting dark and I’d rather get out of stink if you don;t mind.” said Rob.
From behind them a townhouse door across the street opened silently, Brask and three others stepped out, each of the with gun drawn and pointed at Jim and Rob. With a practiced stealth they quickly closed the distance and snuck up behind the two men. 
Brask silently and gently placed the barrel of his pistol against Jim’s temple.
“Did you miss up Jim? Like what we’ve done to the place?” he said quietly.
Jim tried to turn around, but his arms were grabbed and forced behind his back, the pressure forcing him to his knees. He could see Rob too had a gun at his head and was on his knees held by two more men.
Jim went to speak, but all got was a smack across the face with the Gun Brask was holding “Now’s not the time for talking Jim, now’s the time for reckoning.” Brask was clearly enjoying this.
“Who’s you friend Jim?” Brask looked at Rob and his eyes widened in recognition.
“Rob Hughes, formerly of Nova Corp, currently MIA… well, well Jim haven’t you brought us a nice present. Mind you it’s not going to get you off the hook.”
A nondescript white van raced around the corner and screed to a halt next to them. the side door slammed open.
“Now if I had my way you’d have a bullet in the back of your head, but Vex wants to speak to you before I do that, so lets go one a little trip shall we?” said Brask as he nodded to the men inside the van who jumped out and put hoods over Jim and Rob’s heads. The were both bundled inside the van, the side door slammed shut and the van raced off. 
The street returned to is quiet decrepitude as the sound of the van faded.

#





















CHAPTER 22

DATACENTRE (NEIL 8)

Neil didn’t have to get up as early today, he should have been thankful for the extra thirty minutes, except it just meant he waited in his apartment a bit longer after waking up in the early hours of the morning.
He’d been at the Nova Crop data centre for two days now, pretending to be a systems installer. At first Neil doubted his ability to play the part, but quickly found his previous experience in building was the prefect cover. He could read a plan instantly and know what to do straight away, he knew the words to say and had been on more that enough sites to blend right in. He was even considered somewhat of an expert by those technicians working with him.
The data centre was located just on the outskirts of the city centre, maybe twenty or so blocks from the shining mirrored glass edifice that was the Nova Corp office tower. It wasn’t a new building, in fact it was a plain looking five story office building tucked away in an area of the city was used mostly for secondary offices and storage by the many of large companies in the city. I wasn’t a busy area of the city, apart from the sporadic flow of delivery vehicles, the only people that worked there were staff who weren’t deemed important enough to be working in the fancy headquarters in the city. 
Nova has tried as hard as possible to make it looking like it was just a simple cosmetic remodelling taking place, instead of the complete gutting and rebuilding the interior of the build into a stated of the art data centre. 
Neil was sitting at the small table in his small lounger room, the TV playing but on mute for now. There were two hot coffees on the table in front of him. He checks the clock on the wall, right on time there was a light knock on the door.
Neil didn’t get up, the person on the other side had the key, the knock was just a courtesy. 
Knox opened the door quietly and walked, he saw the coffee’s and smiled that genuine smile that had tricked Neil more than a few times. “Glad to see you’re up and ready for the day” Knos said brightly.
“If you mean ready for another day where I don’t know what I’m looking for, then yes sure” replied Neil.
Knox sat and chuckled “I know, right now we just need you to get to know as much of the layout as possible, you need to find us the dark spots where we can get access into the system for a couple of minutes. 
“There’s plenty of places that aren’t fully commissioned yet and I can delay quite a lot of it actually, but I don’t know if I need to hide a person or a memory stick, some details will be good.” Neil said
Knox smiled and said “You’re just going to have to be patient, we’ve got some assets coming in right now that we’re hoping will be able to shed more light on what we need to get. Tomorrow, or the next day, we’ll have something to give you. More importantly, when do you think they’ll bring the servers online properly?”
“I’d say two or three days, the whole project is pretty close to completion. Speaking to a couple of the techs, they are running up parts of it now for testing, they tell me they start going live pretty soon.” Neil sipped his coffee trying to remember if there was anything else he could tell Knox that would shed light on the facility. There wasn’t be treading a fine line between outright asking questions and what seemed to be idle chit chat amongst the workers. 
Knox nodded as as he spoke he got up to leave “We need to nail down a timeline on that, it’s critical we get the job done as soon as they plug into the network and it’s fully online and can see what we’re doing. Keep probing.”
Knox was at the door and paused “Oh and I’ve arranged for a nice little surprise for you after work, make sure you come straight back here.”
“What surprise” Neil asked, Knox didn’t answer , instead quietly closed the door behind him.
Neil briefly wondered what it was, he figured it was probably some new tech device for him to work with, but with the Greys you never know what shitstorm they were going to throw at you. Neil was thinking about that when his alarm went off and he realised he’d have to hustle to catch his transport and the thought of the surprise was put aside so he could focus on the job at hand.
#
Neil’s day was busy, he had to pretend to be working when all he was really trying to do was peek into rooms, listen in to other people conversations and try to coax as much information out of this colleagues as he could. He’d learnt from many years practice that carrying a plan, or a tool, that most people would assume he was working on something and generally ignore him to concentrate on thier own work.
There was no supervisor breathing down his neck, like he had back at Stratum Projects, in fact Neil doubted any of the people knew he was a Level 3 ex-convict.
Walking the tightrope between spy and worked was tiring and Neil slumped into the seat of the AutoCab when his day ended. Just before he fell asleep he remembered Knox’s cryptic mention of a surprise, he couldn’t put a finger on why, but he wasn’t excited about it.
The trip had ended and the AutoCab chimed an alarm to wake him up, Neil was disorientated for a moment until he saw the drab exterior of the half-house entrance outside the AutoCab door. With a sigh he got our and walked into the lobby.
Grant wasn’t in his office, in fact since his last discussion with Grant Neil wasn;t sure he’d seen him at work. Had the Greys done something to him, or had he decided that keeping out if it meant staying away completely. Either way worked for Neil he though as pressed the button for the lift.
Normally the hall way on his floor was quiet, but this evening he could hear what sound like a child laughing. He approached his door and realised the laughter was coming from his apartment. Could it be? thought Neil.
 He didn’t hesitate and almost burst through the door.
Inside on the floor in front of the worn out two seater was Clara watching a tablet and talking and laughing in that way manner that most six year old do. Jen was sitting on the couch smiling at her.
She looked up to see what the noise, as soon as she saw Neil she jumped up and ran at him. The resulting hug almost knocked the wind out of Neil and he had to brace against the wall to prevent them from both falling over. Jen was holding on tight, both were crying. 
It took a minute or so before Neil looked up from the embrace, the feeling of his wife transporting him to a time and place he thought he’d lost forever. Clara was  watching Neil with some suspicion, to see his daughter look at him like that, it tore at his heart. 
“What are you doing here?” Neil finally asked, wipe tears from Jen’s eyes.
“It’s a bit of a story, but I don’t think we have much time.” 
Jen gestured to Clara “Come over here honey, remember Neil, he’s our very good friend, say hello.”
Clara walked over with a bit more confidence than she had in thier last meeting, she clearly remembered Neil form thier last reunion at the doctors office.
Neil knelt down “Hello Clara, it’s nice to see you again”
Instead of hiding behind Jen, Clara said, with the bluntness of youth and the manner of a teenager “Are you my Dad?”
The tears started again and Neil said “Yes”
Clara impulsively hugged Neil, sobbing at her simple and matter of fact recognition, he lifted her up in his arms, she didn’t resist. Jen hugged them both.
This was what Neil have dreamt of for all those years in Jail and those weeks and months exiled out here as a virtual slave, a pawn in some ones else sick game. The desire to wreak havoc on the system that could do this burned hotter than ever.
Their moment of peace and togetherness was broken as Rook and Knox came into the apartment without a knock or warning.
“What are you doing here?” he asked pointedly not wanted the moment with Jen and Clara to be broken, but it was too late
Knox always one to be calm answered “Neil, relax we took a huge risk setting this up, it was no mean feat to convince Jen who we were and to get her to come with us. Honestly, I think even Vex might have taken backwards step when Jen winds up”
Rook and Knox shared a chuckle at that.
Jen looked a bit embarrassed “I might have said some things” she said.
Rook chimed in “Yes and I’m still no convinced you won’t follow through”.
The tension in the room eased and Neil put Clara down.
“Ok, well this was a surprise is wasn’t expected, thank you, really.” Neil said in earnest.
“Neil, you’re a part of the team and we help each other out, no questions asked.”
Jen had kept hold of Neil, she wasn;t ready to let go yet, but she said “We’ve got to go Neil, it’s getting late, but Knox here says we’ll be back together full time very soon.”
“It’s only a few minutes, casn’t you stay?” Neil pleaded.
Knox interjected “It’s too risky, anyone could discover us all here, don;t worry, Jen’s right we re working on a more permanent solution.”
Neils’ head dropped, he hatred that he knew they were right. 
Jen picked up Clara and walked the short distance to the door “Say good bye to Daddy now honey” 
They all hugged, Clara in Jens arms, Neil enveloping the both of them.
Jen whispered into his ear. “Do what you need to do to take the bastards down”
“I will”he answered full of conviction that he would do just that.
Jen and Clara left with Rook, Knox was sitting a the table watching the farewell.
The door closed behind them and the apartment felt empty, washed out, devoid of colour now that they have left. Neil didn’t know what to next.
Knox spoke up snapping Neil back to the real world “Neil come and sit down, we’ve got to talk.”

#
Neil sat at the table with Knox, what next? he thought.
Knox started “I’m glad you liked the surprise, we though it would really help you to focus on what matters. We do this for our families, so not one needs to go through what we’ve all experience out here.”
Neil simply hadn’t pictured Knox, Vex or any of the Grey with family up until Knox mentioned it just them. He guessed that all must have family of one sort or another,though it was hard to picture with Vex. They probably all have the same kinds of stories he had.
“Are you taking them back home now?” He asked.
Knox paused for a split second, just enough for Neil to notice “No, actually we think they’ll be better off with us for now, we’ll take them to a safe place so they are not in danger.” 
“Danger from who? Neil said, the feeling of dread descended again, it was now a well worn feeling for Neil.
“Neil, what we’re doing is going to get some very dangerous people, extremely angry. these people with kill Jen and Clara, and the rest of us, without a second thought. If they go back home they are vulnerable, with us they are off grid and we can protect them.” said Knox with reasonableness that made Neil pause.
“Ok, sure, when can I see them again? You said a permanent solution?” He asked, but Neil had a sinking feeling he knew what the answer was going to be.
“At this point we don’t think it’s safe to get them back here until after the job is done, as for a permanent solution, nothing sold yet, but I’ll let you know as soon as we have one. Right now lets concentrate on the work at hand.” 
Knox smiled, but Neil was not buying it. He understood all to well what Knox meant, Jen and Clara were being held by the Greys to make sure Neil did the job properly, to keep him focussed.
“Ok, sounds good to me, do you have an update? Neil asked.
Again, the slight pause, Neil felt like he was able to start reading Knox’s tells “I do, we’re going to go ahead in 48 hours, unfortunately we just don’t have anyone available to help you, there are all tied up on another thing.” he said.
“What you mean, no one else?” 
“We’ve got another situation that has come up that is more… pressing, so you’re going to have to do the job by yourself.” said Knox.
Jim was stunned, he thought he was just scouting for a team of professionals, or at least someone like Rook or Brask to do the actual job.
Knox saw the hesitation and ploughed forward “Neil you’re the best person to do it, think about it. You know the place better than any of us, the other workers know, you to you, I know you can do it”
“Come on Knox, I’m no pro, I can’t do this on my own.” protested Neil.
“We don’t have a choice, think of your family” said Knox, the genial smile had gone missing, the point was being made directly.
They it was, the sting in the tail the Greys always had waiting for you. Did they ever have anyone else for this? or was it Neil the whole time he thought. Perhaps Jen didn’t just mean take down Nova or the Government, but Vex, Knox and the Greys too. He was inclined to agree with her.
“Ok, lets do it” he said instead.
Knox leaned back and nodded “Good Neil, I’m glad to hear it. You need to take tomorrow to tighten up your plan, make it fool proof, you only have one shot. Now it’s time for me to go. I won’t see you again until after the job is done.”
Neil didn’ t say good bye, he didn’t get up, he just watched Knox walk out. 
The only though going through his head was; Fuck you.







CHAPTER 23

INTEROGATION (JIM, ROB & VEX)

Jim had no idea where they were he was, the hood had remained firmly over his head from the time he and Rob had been bundled in to the van out by the burnt out shell of the Grey safe house. No one has spoken to him since then, not during the rough and bumpy van ride, which Jim thought might have taken an hour or so. No one has spoken to him when was dragged out of the van and tied to the chair he was sitting in now. He was sure exactly how long he’s been in the chair, he’d drifted off a few times, the darkness and cloying lack of oxygen under the hood making it had to stay awake.
A door to his rear screeched open and a pair of foot steps came in. His hood was yanked off his head, the sudden brightness of the room made his clamp his eyes shut and the room spun as he took a few deep breaths. The people who came into the room didn’t speak. 
Jim dared to open his eyes, just a crack, he saw Vex and Brask standing in front him. They waited until he’d opened his eyes fully and could see Brask holding a pistol loosely in his hands. 
Vex spoke “Jim, it looks like you been in the wars huh? Not so easy out there on the streets without any friends is it?”
Jim’s voice was hoarse from lack of water, and he croaked out “Better than staying with you.”
Vex looked shrewdly at Jim “So Jim if it was better than being safe with us, tell me why you’d come back?”
Jim was still blinking but he make out the room better now, it was a square box with raw concrete walls, floor and ceiling, it was lit by a single light fixture in the ceiling that probably wasn’t that bright, but to Jim was shining like a sun.
“I found out some things out there that I think you’d want to know and might help both us, plus I brought you a present as an apology.” Jim said, his voice coming back slightly.
“You mean Rob Hughes? The infamous Nova executive that they’ve totally burnt and are sending kill squads after? Fucking hell Jim, do we even know that whole story insn’t bullshit, that he’s isn’t just a plant to find us? Did you ever consider that?” Vex was getting agitated, Jim could see Brask grip the pistol a little tighter.
Actually the thought hadn’t occurred to him, thought Jim. Shit, what if it was all one elaborate game to get Jim to take him to the Greys? 
No, not with what they’d been through in that bunker with John, if they hadn’t fought back, Jim was sure they’d both be dead. That was real.
“No, it’s not a game, it’s as real as it gets, Rob saved me and I saved him.” said Jim with a firm conviction.
“You’ve cost us a lot Jim, time, people, assets that we’ve spent years building up, these things can’t just be replaced, you’d better have some seriously fucking good intel, or I’ll let Brask do what he really wants to do.” said Vex.
“Yeah sorry about that, I hope Corra is ok, but did you really need to burn the place down?” Jim asked.
“Yes we did Jim, if you’ve have been caught by the CEB you’d have sung like a bird, so yes it had to go…“ Vex paused her voice dropped “…as for Corra, she didn’t make it” she locked directly onto Jim’s eyes, almost daring him to say something else. Jim thought better of it.
Vex continued the stare well after Jim had looked away, then abruptly she turned to Brask and said “Untie him and get him something to drink.”
To Jim she simply said “To be continued, you’re not even close to being off the hook, you’re lucky I’ve got other fish to fry today.” and she promptly walk out of the room.
Brask flicked open a knife in the other hand, the pistol still drawn and menacing. He roughly cut the ties on Jim’s wrists and legs, deliberately nicking Jim each time with the knife. 
Jim protested “Hey, watch up, you’ve cut me.”
“It doesn’t matter, I’ll convince Vex to kill you soon enough” said Brask as he to left the room and slammed shut the steel door.
Jim was alone now, in another jail cell again, he had to get away from all these people. He checked his wrists to see how deep Brask had cut, but they were only superficial scratched, just enough to sting.
With no other choice, Jim lay down on the bare concrete floor and waited for others to decide his fate, he just hoped Rob had enough to give Vex that would save them both.

#
Rob was sitting in what felt like a school cafeteria, there were rows of long tables and chairs, one end of the room was a row of empty but still what seemed to be still serviceable Bain Maries, sadly empty though. Rob looked beyond them into the kitchen behind, again it was empty, but not abandoned, sure this wasn;t a safe house, it felt more like a temporary stop.
He didn’t know what happened to Jim, they’d separated the two of them as soon as they got out of the van. Honestly it didn’t matter to him, he’d already got everything he needed from Jim.
They had taken Rob directly here to this empty cafeteria, sat him down, untied his wrists and slipped the hood off, and then them left alone without a word.
Obviously they did think we was going to run as the room remained empty for what seem like a few hours. Rob had the chance to get up and walk around, he peeked through the doors, no one was standing outside guarding, the corridors outside were empty and quiet. He scouted some bottle water and helped himself. 
After a while he just sat down and waited, Rob knew the tactic very well, place the other person on your time schedule to show who controlled things. He’d used it countless times before; be as late as you could be to important meetings that other side couldn’t afford to walk away from. He was actually a quite amused to be on the other side for once.
Eventually, two people entered the room, a lean wiry women, dressed in dark fatigues, walking like she was the leader and a older man in his late forties or fifties Rob judged. Not the leader, maybe an advisor, not important, but not to be dismissed either.
The woman approached Rob and sat down at the table opposite him, the man held back a few seats.
She spoke “Hi Rob, how are you holding up? You look like you’ve been in the wars.”
“Despite how I look, I’m doing ok, thanks.” replied Rob reflecting the friendly tone.
“Good, we’ll get someone to check you over after this” she gestured to the man who nodded as if adding to a task list.
“Thanks, I’d appreciate it seems you know me, what do I call you?” Rob asked.
“You’re hard not to know Rob Hughes of Nova Corp, you’ve been splashed across the news for the last twenty-four hours. You’ve got yourself in to some serious trouble haven’t you?” she said.
“I guess I have been, but I’m just a casualty in a much bigger game. Oh and you didn’t give me your names, what can I call you?” pressed Rob, he knew they wanted to keep him at a disadvantage and he wasn’t letting them have it. He waited for her to answer the question.
“Of course, you can call me Vex” she answered.
“And your friend there?” Rob asked
The many chimed in “You can call me Knox” he said
Rob saw a flash of annoyance on Vex’s face that Knox had answered, she did well to mask it, but to Rob it was clear as day. Interesting thought Rob, Knox was perhaps more important than he’d initially thought.. He waited again.
After a short moment Vex spoke “So Rob do you mind telling me why you’re here?”
“Well you kidnapped me a gunpoint, so you’re why I’m here, it wasn’t my choice.”
There was that frustration again, good.
“No Rob, and I don’t think you’re in a position to start being smart. Why were you standing outside our safe house with Jim fucking Dalton, the man the whole city now knows you set-up.” Vex said.
Rob wanted her angry, and dug the needle in just a bit more. “You mean former safe house?” 
Before she could respond he leaned in and continued, his face carefully projecting a look of earnestness “Look, I‘ll save us both some time here dancing around what we need to talk about.”
Vex simply said “Go on.”
“I’m burnt at Nova, they won’t stop looking for me until I’m dead. They can’t have someone like me out in the wild with all the information I’ve a got about what they actually do and how they operate. I’ll be blunt, you need what I know otherwise you’ll forever be a small time operation…” he saw Vex bristle at that, but not Knox, he noted it and continued “…and quite frankly I need some friends who can keep me safe right about now. I’m proposing a swap, my safety for information that can bring down, not just Nova, but maybe the whole system.” Rob leaned back, giving here space to think about what he just said, he could she she was hooked.”
Vex looked Rob, and then back at Know who raised an eyebrow.
“Do we have a deal?” pressed Rob.
“If, as you say, you can help us bring down the system, them we’ll keep you safe. Let me make it very clear, if I think at any point you’re lying to me, I’ll give you back to Nova in a heartbeat.” She stood and left the cafeteria, Knox following behind her.
Rob put his hand behind his neck satisfied, the deal was done, but he needed to solidify it, and perhaps get Knox by himself to see what he could leverage there. 
He was safe for now at least and that was all he need today, there was time for the rest later on.
#
Rob was laying down on one of the long benches along side the cafeteria tables, he needed to rest his aching eyes, and he wanted to grab as much rest as he could to stay as sharp as possible.
He was going over the conversation with Vex in his mind, looking for hints of her motivation and angles he could push. The biggest reaction he got was when he called the Greys small time, so he knew it to be true. Vex had betrayed herself and her true feelings more than once in thier first meeting, and Rob was confident he could manage her. 
Still, she was dangerous and he had no doubt she’d meant the threat to kill him, he needed to stay ahead of that anger, and if needed focus it somewhere else.
Knox was a different story, a puzzle that Rob needed to work out, there was something between them Knox and Vex that was unspoken, and Knox was altogether too smooth for a group like the Greys.
He heard voices and footsteps coming towards the Cafeteria and sat up, as best he could he straightened himself up and put on his face, as he used to call it back at Nova, when he had to negotiate hard. This time he wasn’t going in blind, he knew the key players.
Vex pushed open the cafeteria doors and walked in with Knox and another man. Rob was curious now, the mood had shifted, this was not going to be an interrogation.
“This is Neil, he’s going to do a very important job for us tomorrow, and we’re going to need that information you promised now.” said Vex.
“Hi Neil, I’m Rob… newly minted friend of the Greys, what do you need to know” he asked.
Vex interrupted before Neil could answer “If you don’t mind, I’m asking the questions, right now this is a one way street.” 
Rob nodded in agreement “Sure thing, you’re the Boss.” 
The slight squint of the eyes told rob all he needed to know, she did not feel completely secure as the leader here. 
“Ok, here’s how it’s going to go, I’m going to ask the questions and then we’re going to tuck you away in a safe place whilst the job is done. If what you said is true and the job comes off, we’ll talk again. If not, well you can figure that out on your own. Understood?” She asked.
“I’m an open book Vex, let’s start I don’t want to hold Neil up.”
Neil didn’t react, he was waiting for Vex to continue. So Neil was just a soldier then, but he was valuable enough to be listening in, Rob filed that away for future reference.
Vex paused, as if she was standing on the edge of a pool deciding whether to jump in or not. Rob always watching for the slightest details saw the little nod to herself, more of a flick of the eyes than an actually nod, she’d decided to jump in.
“Were going to hack your new data centre tomorrow, what do you know about it?” she asked.
“Ok, straight to the point I see, let me think… it’s massively important to Nova actually, they’re going to run everything they do through it, but I don’t know much about the build out itself, it’s not my department.” said Rob.
“You need to give us more than that” said Vex.
Rob made a show of thinking for a few seconds “Ok, let’s see, I’m pulling from some old bits and pieces I’ve heard around the corridors if you will… what I understood at the time was that Nova intends to run it’s part of the Citizenship points calculation through it. The whole project was very hush hush, you know the information was compartmentalised, as few people as possible knew the real details. Just like you run things here, I mean I know there’s got to be more than four or five of you.” Rob said, smiling, testing.
No one took the bait this time.
“What do you mean it’s part?” Asked Knox interjecting.
“The government doesn’t run the points system themselves, they outsource it all to the private sector. Nova owns the final tabulation process, it brings in the data from all the various associated systems and registries and it creates your final score. It’s the end point, the Citizenship app is Nova’s.”
Neil whistled under his breath as both Vex and Knox took in the new information stony faced.
“Didn’t you know this? What were you looking to get from hacking the data center if you don’t know the first thing about the system? Fucking amateurs.” Rob was pushing them deliberately, he wanted to see who cracked.
Vex went still and spoke quietly “Rob, I’d shut the fuck up if I were you.” her eyes blazing with anger, Neil looked worried that he’d get caught up in her fury, but Knox  looked at Rob without reaction, did he already know this?
Vex got herself under control “Ok, that’s interesting, but not sure how it helps us? What we need is to find what they know about us and grab as much comms as we can whilst we’re in there, if we can find compromised executives we can work them to our advantage.”
Rob sat back and clicked his tongue, looking at them all with a sense of disgust, unfortunately these people really were amateurs Rob thought.
“You’re missing the whole point, the game is much bigger that just a few executives who play outside the rules, they are a dime a dozen and to companies like Nova totally expendable. Look at me, I was at the top, I had a seat at the table with the CEO, and they dropped me in an instant.” Rob said his agitation showing.
“Suppose you tell us what this game is then” said Vex sarcastically.
“Ok, I’ll spell out to you as simply as I can.” Rob paused, they were all waiting eagerly, this is where he wanted to end up.
“Corporations like Nova own the points system. Hell, not just the points system, they own the whole fucking system, it’s sure as hell not the Bi-Continental Government of the Americas, that just a veneer to keep everyone thinking they have a say.
“They call themselves Foundation Systems Companies, out of the ashes of old corporate America they survived and they built the whole system during the Reclamation. Each of them carving out thier own niches, the game is them fighting for power over each other.” Rob paused, he needed to land this story home when they were still hooked.
“Jim, Neil and countless other are just pawns their game, they don’t give a shit about any of you. I know because that was what I did, Jim was my project, he was always going to get burnt, none of them ever survive.”
“If you’re serious and you can hack the server before it’s fully locked down, you have access to everything, and I mean everything, you can change the world.” Rob was done, he could see he’d sold it.
The three of them, Vex, Knox and Neil, sat in stunned silence for almost a minute, until Neil spoke up “Ok, you tell me what I need to find in there to take these bastards down.
Rob smiled “I’ll be glad to.”

#
The meeting went on for another hour or so, the skylights dimmed as the sun went down outside and once brightly lit cafeteria darkened, shadows forming in all the corners, they weren’t turning on the lights Rob noted.
Rob had quickly become a vital element of the Greys plans to hack the data centre. He gave advice to Vex, Knox and Neil about what kinds of files to look for in the system, he gave advice on technical details of the Nova system, he even gave advice on how to use what they’d find if they could pull it off.
All the time he was drip feeding them information, he was skirting the fine line between looking like he was just a peripheral player with second hand knowledge and the fact that he knew every part of the system, what was in it and how to access every part of it.
Rob knew his value, and his life, depended on not only his information being correct, but also that they thought he had more to give. He was careful only to give them glimpses of what he knew, whilst dropping hints as to how much more he had.
The three of them had left Rob alone again when the meeting had drawn to it’s end. This time they didn’t leave Rob waiting, no sooner ha they left when a man, who Rob recognised as leading his kidnap off the streets came in.
“Follow me, I’ve come to put you on ice until the job is done.” the man said, it wasn’t a request.
Rob stood and followed him “I’m Rob, what do they call you?” he asked in a genial tone.
“You can call me shut the fuck up” snapped the man.
“Hey friend, I’m on your side, I remember you from the van that gave us a ride here” said rob, trying again to engage.
“I’m not your friend you corporate piece of shit, and if I had my way both of you’d still be face down in the dirt out there in the Scar” he answered.
Rob decided that silence was probably the best option from that point.
He was led though the dark and empty college or school, Rob couldn’t decide which it was, either way it looked to have been empty for a while. They descend down into a basement level where the lights were turned on at least, and the man stopped at nondescript door, on of many down on this level and opened it up without a word.
Rob understood what it was, this was his jail cell for the next few days, he went inside willingly confident he’d down enough to be leaving at alive later on.
He scanned the room, it must have been some sort of storage room, steel shelves lined the walls, they mostly empty now though. There was a small cot set up int he middle of the room, a few blankets neatly folded on one end. There was what looked liked a janitors sink and cleaning station against the back wall. Rob could handle this for a few day he thought and he turned to thank man only to have the door slammed shut in his face.
Rob had been dozing on the bed when there was a quiet knock on the door. He sat up immediately worried, this was far too quick for someone to be coming back. He though quickly, this couldn’t be a food delivery, as along with the blankets, they left a good amount and variety of food on the shelving, which meant he’d have to fend for himself for the next day or two. No, this was something else, it was a coin toss if it was good or bad.
The door unlocked and was pushed open, Rob was totally surprised to see Neil duck into the room and close the door behind him quietly. Before Rob said anything Neil held a single finger to his lips. 
“We’ve got to be really quiet, Brask is roaming the place.” said Neil.
“Brask, the guy who brough me down here?” asked Rob.
“Yep, that’s the one, he can be a nasty prick when he wants to, and he’s no fan of yours that for sure” Neil said as he sat at one end of the cot.
“I got that loud and clear” Rob dragged a blanket on to the floor and sat on it opposite Neil leaning his back up against the shelving.
“So, what’s going on Neil?” Rob asked genuinely curious.
“It’s just that this afternoon… you said some things… and I wanted to ask some questions. I mean I’m putting myself in danger tomorrow and I’m not going out there on just Vex’s say so if I can help it” Neil said.
Rob was impressed and had to immediately reassess Neil, it took some guts to sneak in here and fact check Vex in her own house. He waited for Neil, who eagerly filled the silence.
“You said these guys are amateurs, what did you mean?” Neil asked.
Interesting that Neil didn’t consider himself one of them, he could use that thought Rob.
“Neil, it’s simple; Vex is thinking far too small. Unless you all start seeing the bigger picture, you’re going to stay small time and end up risking your lives for absolutely nothing.” said Rob.
“Explain it to me so I can see the bigger picture, I’m not risking my life and my families live to achieve nothing.” Neil said.
“We’ll for a start when you hack the data centre tomorrow, you’ll have access to everything, but just for a brief moment.” Rob set the bait again with Neil, the bait Vex just didn’t, or couldn’t, see.
“You said the before, but tell me exactly what you mean.”
“When I said nova controls the points, that exactly it. When you’re in thier system you change chance the points status of anyone, to anything, and they won’t know you’ve done it.” he said, his hands emphasising the point. Come on Neil, follow me there, thought Rob.
“So what, I can make myself a Level 7 again? and my Wife too?” Neil asked grasping the gravity of what Rob was saying.
“Think bigger Neil.” He was enjoying this, he was about to split the Greys in two.
“Ok, Level 8 then for all of us?” 
“No, it doesn’t work like that, you’ll only have time to change one person, especially if you’re also going to grab the data Vex wants at the same time.” 
Rob stood up, the blanket wasn’t a good cushion on the cold concrete. He sat next to Neil on the cot and leaned in conspiratorially.
“When I say think bigger, I mean you can make yourself a God if you want to tomorrow, and no one will be able to stop you. There’s a Level above the system that no one, apart from maybe twenty or so people, knows about.” He paused, this was the most important piece of information that Rob had, he was taking a calculated risk that Neil was going to keep it to himself.
He continued “When the Citizenship system was set up by the corporations after the Reclamation, they created an invisible Level 10 that only the heads of those companies could hold. Neil, Level 10’s have access to everything, nothing is secret to them, they are above the system, hell they don’t even have points. They can basically do whatever they want, and I mean anything. They can’t be demoted out of Level 10, it’s with them for life, no one can take it away, not even other Level 10’s. 
Neil sat in silence, the news seemed almost to be too much to absorb. Rob let him sit an digest it before going in for the kill.
He put his hand on Neil’s shoulder and looked him directly in the eyes. “Neil, tomorrow, you can make yourself a Level 10 and no one, including Vex, can stop you. Think of what you can do, if you have access to everything. Think of how you can royally fuck this system from the inside, and I can show you how.”
Neil sat on the end of the cot silently for some time before he said.
“Show me how” said Neil with a conviction that caught Rob off guard, for a moment Rob worried that he’d just handed ultimate power to the wrong person. No he didn’t think so. 
Rob smiled, this was turning out to be a very productive day.










CHAPTER 24

NOVA HACK (NEIL 9)

Neil has a restless night in the old school, as much as his apartment in the half-way house was small and worn out, it was infinitely better than sleeping on a cot in an old office with Brask, and others, patrolling all night. He wasn’t sure if they were keeping him from running, or keeping him safe. 
He’d risked a lot by sneaking down to speak to Rob in the basement, but what Neil had learned had rocked his world. Everything he knew about the Citizenship system had been turned upside down in the last few hours. 
He had no doubt Rob was telling the truth, when he looked back now on all that had happened to him, he could never connect the dots, it never made sense why he was targeted. It was something had had kept him up at nights for more than five years.
Now that Rob had opened his eyes, he looked back and could see the invisible hands pushing and prodding at his life, like he and his family were some sort of disposable play things. 
Neil felt a sense of relief that the puzzle had been solved are all these years, but that didn’t cool the anger deep within him against those that caused his pain, in fact that anger flared brighter now that he had a real target for the first time.
Neil was sitting silent thing about what he had to do today when Brask, Vex and Knox came in.
“Are you ready?” asked Vex without even a hello.
Neil stood and said “Yep, nothing more I can do here, lets get on with it.”
Vex nodded to Brask who stepped forward and handed Neil a small tablet, it was no bigger than his outstretched hand, this was no commercial unit though. It looked to have been handmade, bits of black tape secured the screen to it’s backing and what looked like a storage unit was glued onto the back a wires from it punching into the back plate of the tablet. Brask handed over a set of short cables, each one with a different connection on one end.
“This is what you’re going to use to access the system, but remember it’s got to be plugged directly into one of the server controller units for it to work, the tablet will tell you if you’re plugged in to the right thing in about five seconds. If it says no, find a new server to plug into.” Vex said, looking to Neil to see if he’d understood.
Neil nodded and Vex continued “You don’t need to do anything once it gives you the ok, the screen will give you a timer on it’s job; it’s got to find, access and download the data we’re looking for. We think it will take five minutes or so, but it could be longer, we just don’t know.” Vex shrugged as if that was not a big deal.
Neil though it was a very big deal indeed, he was planning for a few minutes, not five or ten, or who knows how long.
Vex added “Neil, it’s got to stay connected once its starts, this is one time thing, if it gets stopped for any reason we don’t think it will be able to get back into the system.” 
She was done, she nodded to Knox, who stepped forward to Neil as she left the room.
“Neil, I know you can do this, you got the last job done, this is just the same, we all need this” He smiled and gave Neil a paternal pat on his shoulder as he followed Vex out.
Brask gestured for Neil to follow him and led him through the abandoned school and out a back door to the street where an autocab was waiting, it’s doors open ready to take him to work.
Just as Neil moved to get in, Brash stopped him putting a hand forcefully flat against his chest. “Don’t fuck this up Neil, I’ll be waiting with Jen and Clara until you get back” said Brask, a smirk on his face.
Neil said nothing and gave no outward reaction to Brask’s words. Once the doors closed and the autocab pulled away, the carefully constructed mask he’d worn faded away and the weight of the situation took hold. He’d do the job for them, and keep Jen and Clara safe, but he’d make damn sure he did something for himself too.

#
The autocab’s console showed fifteen minutes to the data centre, the abandoned school was lot closer to the data centre than his apartment in the Outer. He sat enveloped in the silence of the passenger compartment trying to keep his nerves tamped down as much as possible.
Far to quickly he’d arrived, the door slid open inviting Neil to leave, he took a moment and sucked in a deep breath. This was it, the time to actually take control he thought.
Neil stepped out onto the mostly empty street and made his way to the unremarkable building that housed the state of the art data centre, as he had done for the last three days and went inside.
The small foyer, like the outside, gave no indication what was going on inside and Neil flashed his ID badge at the guard who barely registered it before buzzing the heavy security door into the building proper. 
Neil, not wanting to change his routine when to the small staff break room and made himself a coffee, not just because that’s what he’d done every day so far, but also because it gave him a little more time to think.
He’d picked up his work allocations and put them onto a clipboard, today he was, as usual, allocated to trouble shooting faulty connections and cables across the building. He knew enough about reading an electrical plan that he could plausibly work out where to look and it didn’t take much to work a testing unit. It was the perfect cover as it allowed him scope to roam the building, ostensibly chasing down faults by in reality scouting for weak spots, almost by accident he’d even fixed a couple of faults.
He was sitting at one of the tables, the tablet under his jacket poking it’s sharp edges in his skin. A group of technicians walked in with exactly the same idea as Neil; start their shift with a coffee. They saw Neil sitting by himself and came over to join him.
“Morning Gents” said Neil sociably.
“Morning Neil” said the first man to sit down, the ID badge pinned to his chest reminded Neil this was Dominic, an installation tech.
In short order the other two men, Ronan and Travis, by thier badges, sat down.
“What have they got you doing today? ” asked Dominic.
“More of the same, tracing faults all over the place.” answered Neil.
“You’d think they take more care when running the cables would you, but no we all got to waste time trying to work out why one end doesn’t talk to the other” said Ronan, they all grumbled at that.
“Hey, any of you guys in the main server room today, I’ve got bunch of faults to trace in there? asked Neil.
“No we’re mostly done in there, we’ll be down in the terminal roos today running those up.” answered Travis who was the leader of the little group.
“Oh ok” said Neil.
“Don’t look so disappointed, did you want us to help you… like stand at the other end of the room and yell back if you’ve got a green light or not? Sorry not today Neil, you’ll have to rack up the step all by yourself. We’re only days away from going live.” said Travis.
“Not even if I give you a 5 credits per green light?” joked Neil.
The whole group laughed and shook thier heads “Not even for 50 credits would I trace lines my friend.” said Dominic.
Travis had finished his coffee and got up from the table.
 “Come on boys, let get to it” he turned back to Neil as they were all walking away. “Neil, just be careful up there, we’ve got about thirty percent of those units fully online, if you trace a fault to one of the come down and grab me.”
“Got it Travis.” said Neil.
He too had decided it was time to get to work, as he walked out of the staff room he breathed a sign of relief, not having that crew in the main server room meant his chances of pulling this off just got a lot better.

#
Neil didn’t want to wait around, so he headed straight for the server room on the second floor of the building. He had to swipe his ID card three times to get there, once in the lift just to give access to the second floor, and then two doors needed to be unlocked to allow him in the server hall. He hadn’t noticed before, but those door locked shut after him, if he alerted the system, he’d be locked inside.
The server hall was almost the full width and breadth of the building, whatever was there before had been completely stripped, including any walls or partitions, it was just one large room with only the support columns to hold up the building above breaking up the space. 
 The concrete ceiling,the bottom of the floor above, which was painted matt black and criss-crossed with air-conditioning ducting and water cooling pipes, was at least ten feet above the raised floor. 
The floor that Neil was standing on was raised about two feet off the concrete floor below and ran all the power and data cables into the server underfoot.
Neil took a seemingly causal stroll around the space, his clipboard in hand as if he was re-orienting himself to start his work. There were ten server rows in the hall, each row was a series half a dozen clusters of five of the six foot tall units joined together to share power and cooling services. At the end of each cluster there was a gap that allowed access to the rows in front and behind. Neil looked down through the gaps as he walked as he walked up and down each row.
The room was empty for now, so Neil stopped the middle of a row and pulled out the tablet. It was now or never.
He flipped the latches on the back of one of server units and opened the mesh door. The unit was humming with power, all the lights were blinking red, yellow and green across all the racks in the cabinet, Neil had no idea if this was one of the live units or not. 
He looked for the controller unit amongst the rows of drive units found an empty network port, his hands shaking and a sheen of sweat materialising on his brow he plugged the tablet in. He waited, a small script ran on the tablet screen for a few second then disappeared. The screen went blank for a moment, then a red frame around a word flashed.
[No access detected]
“Shit” muttered Neil.
He moved the cable to another port on the controlled unit, and plugged in it, same result.
[No access detected]
Ok, calm down, this cabinet is not the one, no problem thought Neil.
He unplugged the tablet and opened the back of next cabinet over.
With a bravado his didn’t feel he went straight for the network port on this new controller and plugged it in. He held his breath.
[No access detected]
“No!” Neil spat out to no one.
Ok think rationally, this unit is connected to the one next door, it just means they are the same status in each cluster, that will save time, he though.
The solution was go to a completely different row.
Neil crossed over two rows and went across a couple of clusters and repeated the process.
[No access detected]
Neil was starting to panic, this was going all wrong,
He ran to another cluster in a different row, and plugged in the tablet.
[No access detected]
Fuck, what was he doing wrong? The panic started to get hold of him, he could picture Brask sitting with Jen and Clara. 
Just above the hum of the servers, he heard the unmistakeably click of the security lock opening, someone was coming in.
Neil suddenly realised that he’d left the back doors of all the servers he’d tried open, he could see two of them from where he was standing. 
Fuck, how stupid could he be?
He was blown.

#
Neil quickly shut the door in front of him, and sprinted low and quiet to the end of the row to she who came in.
It was Travis, the installation team’s leader, this was bad; he was a senior manager and wouldn’t hesitate to blow the whistle on him.
He had to think fast, Travis would see the open doors and wonder what was going on any moment now. He looked around there was no where to hide, that wasn;t true there was one option and he hauled on the the floor panels ups to reveal the two foot deep crawl space underneath.
Neil dropped down into the space amongst the stacked runs of power and data cables, he flicked the tablet out of sight. Quickly he lay down on his back and pushed himself under the tiles so only his feet were showing, then he pulled out the small torch he carried with him and flicked it on.
Sure enough, less than a minute later Travis called out his name.
“Neil, are you in here?” Yelled Travis.
Neil yelled back “I’m down here.” the floor muffled most of the sound.
“Hello Neil, was that you?” Travis called out, his voice getting closer.
“I said, I’m down here” Neil yelled as loud as he could.
Travis turned the corner and saw the floor tile lifted up and Neil’s feet poking out from under. 
He bent down and called and spoke into the space “Neil, did you open all those cabinets?”
Neil made a show of sliding out from under the floor space and stood up in the open with a groan. “Sorry Travis, I couldn’t hear you under there.”
“I said did you open all those cabinets” said Travis.
Neil, wiping the very real sweat from his face and smearing some dust on his cheek at the same time “Yep, guilty, there was a small short somewhere in the and I though it might be the connection into one of the cabinets… but I found it under here, it was a screw just pinching the wire.”
Travis looked at Neil for a second considering the story and shook his head “Damn that fault has got you sweating, even five hundred credits isn’t going to get me crawling under these floors”.
Neil forced a laugh “I’ve give you all of them if could avoid going under there again, but I’ve still got to go in an patch it up now.”
“Ok, don’t let me stop you, I just came in to activate the whole first row here, so make sure you don’t touch them, they’re now online.”
“Got it, I should be done here soon anyway” said Neil as nonchalantly as he could.
Travis started to walk away and over his should he sais “Oh, and don’t forget to close up and latch all those doors thanks”
“Will do.”
Neil watched travis disappear around to the front of the first row, he couldn’t see what he was doing. Neil stood in the opening in the floor, the fear of being caught him to the spot, he was hoping with all his might Travis wasn’t going to come back.
Whatever Travis needed to do only took a few minutes, without another word he walked out of the server hall. It was only when Neil heard the soft click of the door locking behind his did Neil relax. He slumped down onto the cold concrete floor and put his head in his hands as the adrenalin washed out of his system leaving him light headed and dizzy.
That was far too close, he can’t keep making mistakes like that.

#
He wasn’t sure how long he sat there on the hard concrete floor, hidden from view slumped down under the raised flooring in the server hall. long enough that the stars flashing in his eyes had subsided and his hands had stopped shaking. Did the device Vex handed to him even work? Right now Neil was doubting every part of the plan, he’d be lucky just to get out of this safely with nothing.
He was just wallowing in his defeat when an idea flashed like a lighting bolt into his head. He sat up straight.
He had been trying to avoid the live server units in case they set off alarms that they were being hacked, maybe it was only the live ones that would work? 
Travis had just told him which units were live now, Neil had no choice but to risk it.
Neil grabbed the tablet that he’d hastily slid out of sight, got up slowly and deliberately from the floor and climbed out of the opening. He carefully replaced the floor tile and walked to the first open server cabinet door. He closed it and latched it shut with what seemed to be an exaggerate care, then he walked the aisles of servers and closed and latched every other door he’d left open. 
He did want to be reminded of the stupid mistake he’d made, plus he needed a few more minutes to gather up the courage to plug the tablet into a live server.
He came to the final open door, the first one he’d opened, it’s dark grey mesh and black frame silently daring him to access the server inside.
He took a deep breath and plugged the tablet in and waited.
A green fame flashed with the words
[Access detected]
Then a few moment later a timer appeared
[Script started, Runtime 00:07:35]
Neil stood completely still, waiting for alarms to sound or security to come rushing into the room. Nothing, apart from the low hum of the servers and cooling fans, he checked the timer, he had seven minutes.
The plan was back on track, was he going to risk taking something for himself now? without really think his body decide for him as he ducked around to the front of the rack and pulled open the controller’s fold-out screen and keyboard, the kind he’d seen the techs use to access the system directly.
Rob had sketched out the backdoor script on a slip of paper the night before in his holding cell. It was a backdoor into the system that Rob had been working on it since he started at Nova Corp years before. 
Rob never had the right circumstance to test it himself, but told Neil if it worked, it was possibly the most valuable set of letters and number in existence. In theory it would grant anyone with the code access deep into the Citizenship Points system, all that down to the original program from the time when the system was set-up. 
However it could only be done directly from inside the system, and Rob never had access to the primary servers.
Neil stood in front of the console and couldn’t help thinking that he was a guinea pig here testing Rob’s theory, he wasn’t pass up the chance.
He typed the first line on the note
[#!/bin/bash]
He literally had not idea what that meant, but he pressed on and typed in the next lines.
[HIDDEN_SERVER_ENDPOINT=”http://legacy.grid.hidden:8080/setup_access]
[HIDDEN_USER=”legacy_admin’]
[HIDDEN_KEY=”L3G4CY_1901_150YR”]
He re-read what he’d typed in a checked it against the notes, it seemed correct so he pressed Enter.
Nothing happened, the cursor simply went to the next line and blinked on and off waiting for a new instruction.
[dialog --title “Setup Override Access” \ --msgbox “Enter Citizen ID for Level 10 elevation. This is permanent and untraceable.” \ 8 60]
Here heard a beep from around the back of the server, had something gone wrong with the tablet?
Neil sprinted around the back and checked it, the box around the text was still green.
[Script started, Runtime 00:04:23]
The beep sounded again, but it was coming from a small box mounted high up in the cabinet, there was a yellow light flashing.
Ok, just normal server things guessed Neil, he didn;t have time to think about it and rushed back to the console.
The was a small grey dialogue box that simply asked for the a citizenship number.
Rob typed in his thirteen digit citizenship number, every citizen had thier own number etched into thier memory almost from birth.
Another beep from the server.
The dialogue box then asked
[Confirm permanent upgrade Y/N}
Neil’s finger hovered, if this worked he’d be untouchable, he pressed the Y key.
[Upgrade confirmed] displayed in the box and the the box disappeared.
A script ran.
[echo “Upgrade complete. Disconnecting...” exit 0]
The screen went bank as if nothing had happened.
The beep came again and this time was starting to repeat more quickly, did he trigger that?
Neil closed folded down the screen and pushed the whole unit back into it’s slot in the rack. He rushed around to the back and checked on the Tablet.
[Script started, Runtime 00:01:21]
The light on the box was blinking even more, Neil stepped up on one of the storage racks in the bottom of the cabinet to look closer, there was a little blue lit screen at the top which read “Transmission detected, scanning, locating 73% complete”
Transmission detected, what does that mean, then he noticed the yellow warning light on the device was flashing in time with the the one one the tablet.’
Oddly the tablet still showed the same time on it.
[Script started, Runtime 00:01:21]
Had it stalled? He turned it over to make sure cable was still connected and the back cover came off in his hands. The heat from inside the cabinet had loosened the glue on the tape. The tablet opened up like a clam shell and what Neil saw in side chilled him to his bones. 
There were two long black antennas running up the each side of the handmade back cover,they were hard wired into the back of the tablet. There was not storage unit in sight, this was a transmitter.
The beeping stopped and a red light replaced the yellow on the device. A second later alarms came to life in the room, Neil’s ears hurt at the sudden shrieking sound.
They’d screwed him.

#
Without any hesitation Neil bolted for the door as the light in the server room turned red as if to back up the shrieking alarm. Instinctively Neil knew he had minutes or even second before the building went into a full lock-down.
He slammed into the first door using it as a brake, he didn’t have time to slow himself down. He frantically swiped his ID card, the lock clicked open. Neil, slowed down by knocking the wind out of himself on the first door, he hit the second door with slightly less force. Still the impact rattled the heavy door and took the wind of out him for a second time. He swiped the ID car, the light went green and the lock opened, he burst through it in the lift lobby. 
Wheezing and trying to catch his breath he saw the lift was already on its way up to his floor, he had seconds. 
He darted for the fire stairs he didn’t want the fire door to slam shut and echo around the looby, so he the remains of tablet he was still holding between the door and the frame to keep it open, just a crack. 
The doors to the lift opened, four armed security guards, weapons drawn rushed out and headed to the server room.
“Go, go, go” yelled the leader as they opened the first door and disappeared inside.
Once Neil had heard the door click locked behind them, he pulled the tablet away and allowed the fire door to close.
He jumped down the stairs his breath coming back to him, inside a minute he’d gone down the two floors to the ground level and stood at the exit to outside. This door shouldn’t have been locked down under fire regulations, but Nova didn’t seem to care about rules. 
Neil stood for a moment to try and place where there door would exit, by his reckoning it would exit on the side of the building, he should have a straight shot to the street out side.
He pushed open the locking bar on the door, it opened smoothly and Neil causally walked out, he knew not to run that would draw attention. No alarms on the street, but he didn’t know if he’d just set off alarms inside, he didn’t fancy and encounter with Nova security. 
Neil walked across to the other side of the street and as briskly as he could got to the next intersection and turn into and way from view from the building.
We he needed now was a faster way to get our of here.
“What I need is a fucking cab right about now” Neil said to the near empty street in frustration.
Moments late an autocab pulled up beside him and stopped, it’s doors opening as if inviting him in. Neil felt very conspicuous standing out on the footpath looking into the empty cab, so he got in.
The door smoothly slid shut and the console displayed a message.
“Welcome Prime Dalton. What is your destination?”
He’d expected the cab to recognise his face, he was only going to take it few blocks before he ditched it.
What was this Prime? Normally the console would say citizen Dalton and show his citizenship number to confirm who to take the credits from.
The autocab’s interfaces were quite dumb, but could anser basic questions, so Neil asked “What is a Prime?”
“You are, Prime Dalton, what is your destination? it answered back in it’s neutral mechanical voice. Neil had a theory.
“Do I have enough credits to get to the Outer?” he asked.
“You will not be charged any credits for this trip Prime Dalton, all public services are credit free a Prime Citizen” the autocab answered back as if it was the dumbest question it had ever heard.
Neil smiled, it had worked, he now had the power of the whole system in his hands.
He was going to pay some people a visit and it wasn;t going to be comfortable for them, but first he was going to make a couple of stops.














CHAPTER 25

ALONE (JIM 11)

Jim thought he’d been in the cell for two nights now, not that he was exactly locked in. Brask or Knox has come delivered food and water, they’d set-up a small cot and even let him out every few hours to use the bathroom down at the end of the corridor. It was hard to tell what time is was, his only reference was how much light was coming down the stairwell into the basement each time he passed it.
Neither of them had said much to Jim in thier visits, they both looked pre-occupied the whole time, like Jim was just an afterthought, or a even an annoyance. It felt like he wasn’t any use to them anymore. That actually worried Jim a hell of a lot as these were not the kind of people who just let you go.
Jim assumed it was morning on the third day when Vex came into the room. He was still saying in his cot snoozing, there wasn’t a lot of motivation to get up when you had no idea if it was morning or not, or even a reason to get up.
Vex flicked the overhead light on, Jim was for once pleased it was provided only a weak illumination and he wasn’t blinded by it.
Vex threw a new set of clothes onto the cot.
“Go have a shower Jim, you stink.” 
Jim remember he had actually been in the same clothes he had on when he left Rob’s apartment hide-out, he surreptitiously sniffed at his armpit, Vex was right. he stunk.
“Meet us upstairs in the cafeteria, we need to have a serious discussion.” said Vex as she walked out leaving the door open.
Jim got up from the cot cautiously expecting Brask, or some other Grey muscle, to walk in and escort him around the old school. Nobody did, and there was nobody outside in the corridor either. It’s like they didn’t care what he did anymore.
Not one to look a bit of freedom in the mouth, Jim sauntered down the corridor to the bathrooms. They were actually the old staff change rooms, with dozens of lockers and half a dozen shower booths with benches inside. They even left half full soap dispensers on the walls.
Jim picked a shower booth and laid out his new set of clothes, he chuckled when he saw it was an old staff uniform. 
He was going to take a long hot shower, if they didn’t care enough to guard him, he was going to take his damn time.
#
Jim has luxuriated in the long hot shower, he be sure but he though he’d been in there fro at least half an hour. No one came in to look for him, or at least not that he noticed, and the hot water never ran out. He left the shower feeling like a new man, except for the purple and yellow bruises on is side where John had punched him repeatedly.
He dressed and set about finding the cafeteria, luckily the old school had plenty of signs pointing the way, the gym, the library and most importantly the cafeteria. The school was silent a still dark with shafts of early morning light peaking through the shuttered windows and from under locked doors. It was a quiet and calmness that made Jim slow down even more to soak in.
Soon enough he saw the entrance to the school cafeteria, as he approached he heard voices. With no other sounds, not event the low drone of air conditioning, the hard concrete walls of the old school carried the voices further they they would normally have. 
Jim stopped just short of the doors to try and hear what was being said.
“… so we got everything we needed from the Datacentre?” Vex was talking.
“Yes, we got what we wanted and much more. Neil kept the unit sending data back to us for almost nine minutes before it was disconnected. I didn’t think it would take so long for the transmission to be detected.” Brask answered in his usual rough tone.
“Did we ever find out what happened to Neil? asked Vex.
Brask scoffed “Do we care?”
Someone else interjected “We care because he can still cause up damage with what he knows.” The voice was older and softer, Jim didn’t recognise it.
“We tracked a security alert at the data centre, it looked like a big spike in activity, but nothing seems to have leaked outside, ninety-nine percent chance they caught him.” said Brask.
“Ok, do we still have an asset in thier security?” Vex asked.
The older voice answered “Yes, he’ll do what needs to be done.”
“What about the wife and kid? ” asked Brask.
“Cut them loose, we don’t need them anymore” answered Vex
Jim had heard more than enough from these people. They were no rebels, they were most like the old mobster, just in it for themselves and fuck the rest of us, he was disgusted with them. 
He want to risk being caught listening in, he quietly back tracked down the hallway. He stopped, took a deep breath and as loud as he could he stomped towards the cafe. 
It did the trick, they were expecting him when he pushed through the doors of the cafeteria. Vex and an older man were sitting at one of the table, Brask was already standing and walked towards Jim, he pushed past and out of the room without a word.
“Jim, come sit” Vex ordered point to the bench opposite here and the man.
Jim did as directed, they might be preoccupied but that didn’t mean he things couldn’t end up badly here.
Without introducing the man sitting next her, Vex pushed a tablet over in front of him. “Watch” she instructed.
The tablet was playing a clip from the news, another nameless anchor standing in front of a video wall plastered with Jim’s picture. He could he see his ID picture, screenshots of his at the Apex restaurant, even a video loop of him pushing over the cameraman at his house.
The anchor spoke “Now for breaking news of former Level 8 executive Jim Dalton, who’s spectacular fall from grace has captivated the city for weeks now.”
Reading from the statement that flashed onto the screen, the anchor continued.
“The Citizenship Enforcement Bureau has announced that in a closed court session yesterday, they moved forward with Jim Dalton’s trial on the charges of seditious libel and seditious conspiracy. The Court tried Dalton in Absentia and found him guilty of those charges.”
The anchor walked over to a tall desk on the set where three other journalists where sitting “So is that the conclusion of this story, Jules?” She asked.
“I don’t think so, legally they are yet to sentence Dalton, don’t forget he’s also still a wanted fugitive.” answered Jules.
“What do you thing the sentence will be?
“Well it’s kind of an unprecedented conviction, sedition of any type is one of the most serious crime on our books. It wouldn’t surprise me one bit if the recieve a full life sentence.” said Jules.
Jim absorbed that fact, now there were no soft landing options any more, no convincing people of his innocence, just a jail cell for the rest of his life.
The video kept playing
“Very serious indeed, lets move over to you Amos what are your thoughts?” She asked one of the other panellists.
“Boy oh boy, Dalton is in a world of hurt when they catch up with him that’s for sure… but Wow! What a ride he’s had, racking up multiple theft and assault charges, on top of the sedition charges. Then the cherry on top, his videos accusing the CEO of one of the biggest and most successful companies in the whole of the Bi-Con Americas of some sort of wild conspiracy to take Dalton down. I’m note sure we’ll ever see a ride or die like this again, am I for one and all for it!” said Amos, clearly the shock jock on the panel.
“Ronan, what are your thoughts about the protest outside the Nova Corp tower since Dalton’s last video? acceptable or not?” She asked the final panellist.
“Unacceptable, these were baseless accusations against on of our most important business leader, the Police and the CEB need to shut those protests down now.” said Ronan, clearly the foil to Amos on the panel.
“Indeed, well like it or not, Dalton is the hot topic right now as people choose thier sides….
Jim pushed the tablet away, he couldn’t stomach any more of the slick TV voices discussing him like he was some sort of soap opera character.
“So I’m fucked, but I knew that already.” Siad Jim caustically.
“Jim yes, you are, and quite frankly, you’re to hot for us to handle. With the conviction, every member of the Police and the CEB, and quite frankly most of the population will be on the look out for you, and w’ere not going to risk ourselves hiding you.” said Vex 
Are they really cutting me loose? thought Jim.
“So, what now?” asked Jim.
“This is where we part ways Jim, but know this if you get caught out there, we’ll be keeping a close eye on your parents. One sniff of you talking and, well I’ll let Brask loose.” Threatened Vex.
Jim waved her off, he’d had just about enough threats from these people. He was past feeling afraid of them now, they could threaten him all they wanted, he just didn’t care. He wasn’t exactly numb to it, but his anger and fear had transformed into something else, he wasn’t sure what it was yet.
Vex got up and walked out of the room, no good byes or good luck, just complete cold rejection.
Jim put his head in his hands and closed his eyes, he’d manged to lose every single ally he had.
#
Jim looked up a few moments later startled to see the man still sitting there quietly looking at him. 
He smiled, it was a genuine warm smile, he waiting for Jim’s shock to subside and spoke “Hi Jim, we haven’t met, but I though that before we all head our own separate ways, I wanted to have a quick chat with you.” He said congenially.
More threats? thought Jim.
“Vex made it pretty clear I need to keep quiet, but there was not need to get my family involved.” Spat out Jim.
The man shook his head and said “Jim you misunderstand me, I’m not here to make treats, Vex is more than capable of that. I’m here because I think I have a opportunity for you.”
“For starters, I don’t talk to people who name’s I don’t know, and why the fuck would I care what you people want anymore?” Jim made a point not hide his disgust.
“You can call me Knox, I’m not here to tell you to do anything, I think we both know where you stand. I’m just here to show you a possibility, you can take it or leave it” Knox said.
He really had no plan, so Jim thought he might as well listen.
“Ok, dazzle me with your plan then” he said sarcastically.
Knox pulled out a phone and placed it on the table in between them.
“This is totally anonymous phone, we’ve cracked it’s software and installed phantom routine app that means it’s virtually impossible to trace, even to us.” said Knox
“Ok, a phone, thanks”
“The phone is not the proposal. It what you can do with it. Jim, I don’t think you realise what’s happening out there. Your videos have stirred something within the people of the city, a deep sense of unhappiness at the system.” Knox said earnestly.
“Hey you won’t see me disagreeing, the system is rigged, but what can I do about it?” asked Jim.
Knox looked up behind Jim and waved someone over, Jim turned, it was Rob.
Rob nodded to Jim and sat next to Knox, it wasn’t lost on Jim that he and Knox were sitting together with Jim alone on the other side.
“I was just explaining to Jim what’s going on out there.” Knox said to Rob.
“Jim, your videos, and now your conviction have got people openly talking about the system and how unfair it is.” Rob said as he took over the pitch from Knox.
“Get to the point, I don’t want to be here any longer than I need to” said Jim.
“Jim, you know how I keep saying this isn’t about you, that much bigger than you? Rob asked.
“You, Nova, this lot here” he waved at Knox “have made it clear I’m pretty much insignificant” said Jim.
“Well I was wrong, right now you and you alone are very important. You’re the name that has got everyone asking questions. Your last video outing me and and Nova broke open the floodgates of dissent. There’s protests breaking out in the Grey right now, and the rust belt is rumbling.” Rob said.
“Right now they are unorganised and don’t have leader, the Greys can’t get in front of it, they’ll be blown and they’ve got other fish to fry right now. Jim, if you go out there and keep dropping videos, give these protesters a purpose, a leader, then you might just kick of something no one can stop. That’s how you get back at the bastards.” 
Jim sat back and blew out a big breath, as he tried to get his head around what Rob had just said. The more he thought about it the more it made sense. He knew how much damage his last video did to those faceless corporations and the self appointed gods who ran them. Rob sitting across the table, with two black eyes, was testament to that fact.
Jim didn’t feel like giving up the fight today.
“So, let me get this straight, instead of disappearing into the shadows, you want me to be even more public?” Jim asked not quite believing it that was the deal.
“Yes Jim, only you can do it, the people seem to think you’re one of them now, they are desperate for a direction, for leadership, your leadership” said Rob.
“What about you?” Jim asked.
“I’m going to stay with these guys for a bit, we’ve got some big things to work on together.” Rob answered.
Jim picked up the phone was turning it around in his hands contemplating the choice; go down in blaze of glory sewing as much chaos as he could, or slink away into the shadows like coward.
Jim was no coward.
Just as he was going to give them his answer Brask burst into the cafeteria at a full run. 
“We’ve got to go now” he said to Knox and Rob, ignoring Jim altogether.
“What’s going on?” said Knox, his nice guy demeanour almost instantly disappearing.
“There’s been complications with the data centre job, looks like Neil got away, but he managed to take sort sort of backdoor access with him. We don’t know what, but the tablets has been used to trace our location and has pinged everyone of our ID’s. We’ve got to get out here and go off grid right now!” Brask was almost yelling the last sentence, his panic showing.
Knox and Rob got up a ran out of the Cafeteria behind Brask as the all exiting without a backwards glance at Jim.
For the second time today he’d been left alone, but this time he knew they weren’t coming back, he was truly on his own. He stood, still holding the phone Knox had given him, he looked around the empty room.
He made his decision, he put the phone in his pocket and said to no one “Fuck them all.”

#
Jim got away from the school and had just ducked down when he looked back to the school as a dozen or so black clad agents stormed into it. They didn’t look like Police or even the CEB, he assumed they were some sort of private mercenary group, well funded and armed to the teeth. He didn’t think there were going in to take prisoners.
Thankfully the old staff uniform they’d given him had included a hoodie, Jim walked away briskly with the hood pulled down low over his face, it would stop most people recognising him.
He needed to get out of the city, so he jumped on the first bus, pretending to swipe on with his phone. He’d done it hundreds of times before when he was growing up in the Outer, the other passengers didn’t even look up.
Sitting on the bus he thought deeply about what Rob had said, he was going to sew as much chaos as he could, but he might as well do it in a way that was as hard to stop as possible, and that mean playing the part of rebel leader, he play that role until they stopped him.
For the next few hours Jim jumped bus after bus, each trip taking him further away from the city centre, but never taking the straight line, always careful to double back and check the no one was tracking him.
He got to his destination, one of the major bus hubs in the Outer. It was the most dangerous part of his journey, the hub was brightly lit, bustling full of people coming and going from various parts of the city, and worst of full of cameras.
He kept his head down and jumped one of the buses that took him over the miles long causeway bridge that spanned the Scar and connected the city to the factories of the Rust Belt.
Jim had been out the once or twice in his life, but he knew enough about the are to know, virtually not one lived out there and the Police and the CEB rarely, if ever, crossed the Scar bridge. It was his only option of getting out of the city, but staying in civilisation.
It was dark when the bus dropped him at the terminal in the Rust Belt, only a few night shift workers were milling around waiting for thier feeder busses to thier factories. Jim decided he just walk and stop when he found somewhere to hide.
It didn’t take long, whilst a lot of the Rust Belt factories were brand new shiny corporate behemoths pumping out all the product the city needed, there were plenty of buildings that had been abandoned for one reason of the other.
Jim found a smaller factory with a small attached office building that looked like it hadn’t been used for many years. The once manicured grass an the entrance had turned into foot tall weeds, where the company name used to be, was simply a less faded patch of the wall.
Jim ducked through a hole in the fence and walked up the front door, it was chained shut. Jim stumbled around to the side of the building into dark night time shadows and found a side door that was starting to rot. With a few kicks directed at the weak spot, he manager to open a hole that he could crawl through.
The warehouse inside was pitch dark and mercifully completely empty, Jim knew he wasn’t far from the offices and managed to fell his was to them. Once inside he went up to the second floor and chose and office at random to make his bed for the night. The floor would do for now, he’d scout for supplies tomorrow when the sun would stream in and up the whole place.
Before he allowed himself the luxury of sleep, he had some things to say. He pulled out the phone Knox had given and turned it on, luckily they’d set it up just for his needs, as if they knew he’d take the bait. 
He flicked open the streaming app and turned the camera on himself, the small phone light illuminating him against a dark background. 
He pressed the live button and started speaking.
“I’m Jim Dalton and I’ve got a story for you about corporate greed and corruption that you won’t want to miss…”











CHAPTER 26

SHANE AND THE TABLE (SHANE 2)

Citizenship Act: revised 2045 (Classified – no access below Level 10)
Section 4, Subsection 3 – Citizenship Status
11.1 Citizenship Status Level 10 – No points accrued.
11.2 Such status will be appointed to the heads of each of the five (5) Foundational systems Corporations (FSC) as outlined in the Citizenship Act 2035 – Appendix 23.
11.3 The Heads of the FSC’s have at at thier direction the ability to appoint, and remove, any other person to Level 10.
11.4 The Heads of the FSC’s Level 10 status can not be revoked, except by an extraordinary meeting of the FSC Board.
11.5 Such status will allow full and unrestricted access to all data and status systems controlled by their FSC.

Shane arrived deliberately late to the meeting, he wanted the others to wait for him, after all they’d called the meeting, not him. It didn’t happen often that all of the heads of the Foundational Systems Companies, as they liked to call themselves, were all together in one place for an official meeting. Of course any one of them could technically call a special meeting such as this, they simply didn’t need to, besides they all universally despised each other and were normally content on plotting each others downfall from the safety of thier own corporate empires.
The venue was the Club House, a sort of neutral ground that had been built by the six founding corporations during the reclamation when they met almost daily to set up the Citizenship system. Now it was only occasionally used by one or other of the company heads and almost never at the same time, as technically there were only six members.
That didn’t stop the Club from being immaculately maintained to the highest possible standards at all times. Staff and workers were selected only from the six foundational companies and even then were thoroughly vetted fro loyalty and discretion. It was often a path to promotions and elite status back in the city to be seconded to the club for a six month posting.
There had been quite debate over what architectural style to build the Club, two of them had wanted a call back to styles from old America, the white neoclassical style of the old White House or the old Capitol building, both of which had been wiped out in the Last War. 
Shane for his part wanted to dispense with the failures of history and had won the argument to build an ultra modern building, made from new glass and steel made out in the, at the time, newly recommissioned factories of the Rust Belt.
The drive was as pleasant as ever, the Club was about an hour north from Shane’s mansion in the hill, which already at the northern tip of the city. Shane’s car drove itself effortlessly, weaving it’s way deeper into the forest, where no one ever went, purposely, and surprisingly smoothly for such a big heavy car.
Shane sat in the car alone, well accustomed to the opulence of the interior he did even notice it. He was silently fuming at having been summoned by the so-called Board of Primes, as they liked to call themselves. Even the thought of the title Prime, disgusted Shane what arrogance this small group of people had, they better off all gone with Shane left to run the place.
He knew why he’d been called in; Jim Dalton, he chuckled at the thought that he‘d lost control of Dalton. No, whilst Jim had wrong footed Shane time and again, eventually he’d turned into exactly what Shane wanted, a lighting rod to stir dissent and weaken the system. 
A weak system that Shane could exploit and ultimately take over.
Shane’s car finally slid into the grounds of the Club, the sleek low single level building, its grey steel frames and reflective glass walls, framed by exotic vertical wooden battens, looked like it was floating over the manicured grounds.
The car effortlessly rolled into the underground garage and parked in Shane’s spot. He opened the door and got out, no staff were here today to attend to Shane, they’d all vacated from the site completely. He could see four other similar cars parked neatly in thier designated spots, they all varied slightly in colour and style, except for the last one. It’s gaudy bright yellow almost seem designed to annoy Shane.
Lucien De Montfort, head of Pinnacle Analytics, and Nova’s chief rival in the data space, insisted on driving his assortment of vintage petrol cars around the northern Hills. He did it “in the interests of keeping these magnificent engineering pieces of art alive”. Today the bright yellow Ferrari made Shane dislike him even more.
Shane allowed the thought to dissipate and cleared his head of any annoyance or anger. He was about to enter a room full or apex predators, any weakness in emotion or mood would found and exploited, not that Shane went in unarmed, he knew he was equally as dangerous.
Shane straightened his immaculate dark grey suit and walked upstairs to the Club ready for battle.
#
The main room of the Club was exactly as one might expect of an and exclusive venue for the ultra rich and powerful. The tall sweep of the flat ceiling was held up by the exposes structural grey steel beams. The spaces in between clad with huge panels of exotic woods from the rainforests of the southern continent. On one of the room the twenty foot tall glass wall gave unappareled view across the valley and into the deep forest, the smart glass able to block the view in an instant.
Opulent, irreplaceable artwork graced the walls, side table held equally expensive vases and sculptures, even the couches dotted around the room were upholstered in the finest fabrics.
Shane strode purposely into the room and saw all the other Primes casually chatting with each other around he vintage side board that had been pile with foods of all kinds.
They turned as one when he entered.
Lucien took it upon himself to welcome Shane on behalf of the others.
“Shane, my friend, so good of you to grace up with your presence, I hope the trip out here wasn’t too onerous” he said effusively.
Shane a smile planted firmly on his face took Lucien’s outstretched hand and shook it with all the warmth he could muster “Lucien! It’s been far too long since we lunched together, so good to see you. I saw you dragged another one of your old relics up here” Shane said still smiling.
Lucien feigned hurt “Mon ami, you hurt my feelings, my cars are as irreplaceable as the artwork that hangs on these walls, and much more fun.” 
The affected old school Québécois accent and smattering of French just annoyed Shane even more, he knew they both grew up in this city, although Shane didn’t have the fancy family name nor had he inherited his position.
The others in the group wandered over to shake his hand and greet him with hugs or handshakes, god he hated these people.
Sofia, the head of Ruiz AgriSystems the largest supplier food in the Bi-Con, spoke up with her soft, almost musical, Argentinian lift that had lured many a competitor to thier demise.
“Everyone, please lets get started now that were are all here” she gestured towards the sleek dark marble hexagonal table that sat under a matching cut-out high in the ceiling. 
When they were all seated Sofia spoke again “As the appointed Chair of this group, I’ve called this meeting to address concerning reports coming out of the Capital of growing civil unrest. Would the either of the gentleman who run the city care to expand?” she looked at Shane and Lucien.
Shane took a breath and started to speak, he had neat little story worked out for this meeting, but Lucien started a second before him.
“I agree Sofia, it is rather concerning, we’re tracking quite a spike in unsociable behaviour, the resulting points fines don’t seem to be having the same effect as we’d normally expect.” Lucien said informatively to the group.
Shane sat, it was a simple trick by Lucien to speak first and lay down a his narrative, Shane couldn’t let the group know he was annoyed or frustrated, let him have his say, Shane could counter it.
Lucien continued “ça me fait mal, I don’t like seeing our city so, I’d certainly like to know why there has been such a spike?” he looked at Shane who simply returned his gaze as nonplussed as he could.
There he goes with that french conceit again, as if everyone in the room didn’t speak at least five or more languages each, thought Shane. He sat silently as if in deep contemplation, making sure he was giving due deference to the question they had summoned him here to ask.
When he spoke it was with authority “I can understand those of you in your cities away from the Capital might get the wrong idea from reports, but as the man on the ground controlling things here” He paused for effect, he didn’t need to look at Lucien to know that barb had struck home, he continued “I have the city completely in control, nothing needs to concern any one here.”
A different voice spoke up, Kael Voss the head of Horizon Ventures who’s vast empire spanned old Brazil plundering he rainforest for mineral resources, asked simply in his clipped and very formal english heavily accented by his native Portuguese tongue “If the Capital is under control, as you claim, then why would we have such a spike in anti-social activity?”He asked.
Lucien followed up quickly with his own question, as if he’d been prepared for Kael’s question “Perhaps if you be so kind, my dear friend Shane to enlighten us all on all the special projects that you’ve been running around the Capital, one can’t help but think they have some bearing on the current situation?”
Lucien was playing a big card now, he was telling Shane he thought he knew exactly what he was doing, but he’d anticipated in on the drive over.
“Lucien, you’re getting a bit excited with rumours and innuendos my old friend, we all run projects from time to time to root out dissent. That’s all that is going on, we’ve set-up a series of events simply to draw out those more prone anti social behaviour to flag and track them better. This will all calm down as soon as we end the projects.” Shane smiled at the group expansively.
“What about project 29” Lucien asked innocently.
Shit, how does he know Dalton’s project number? Thought Shane, immediately realising he had a major leak. It must be Rob Hughes, damn it, he was going to have to clean that up quickly.
“Oh you mean Dalton, that was just a simple project to uncover a small, but I do admit annoying, group of want-to-be rebels. Not to worry, it’s all bee cleaned up already.” Shane said dismissing the matter as something trivial.
Sofia had been sitting back and observing the interaction between Shane and Lucien, spoke up. “Shane, Lucien whilst it’s amusing for us all the what your schoolboy jabs. we do really need to deal with the matter.” Looking at Shane she asked “What do you intend to do to resolve it?”
Kael interjected “ I would hope you punish all those caught up in rebellious activity harshly.”
Shane smiled “No Kael, the opposite in fact, of course the handful of hard core cases we’ll send over to you die in the mines, but I’m proposing to give a general amnesty for minor offences. We will build more loyalty to the system if the people think it has some measure of compassion.” he said reasonably.
Shane knew full well the genie was out of the bottle, the civil unrest would grow and he’d be happy to inflame it, but he had some moves he needed to make before he could light the fire for real.
“We’ll, I can speak for us all Shane that we expect you and Nova to get this under control and quickly. Otherwise the Board may have to review the allocation of your contracts to the system.” She smiled.
There it was, the sledgehammer wrapped in the smooth song like voice, Shane knew what she meant and it was not an idle threat. Even the sniff of losing contracts to run the system to the others in this room would trigger a coup inside Nova and Shane would be cast aside. There was no peaceful retirement options for Primes.
Shane smiled sweetly to Sofia and nodded to the rest of the board to acknowledge the reprimand with due deference. 
Underneath his outward air of calm and professionalism, he was seething, none of these so-called Primes had any right to be running the system. He got up from the table and as he said his goodbyes one thought was solidifying in his mind.
You’ll never have the chance to take me down.
You people have no idea what’s coming.



THE END!!!!!





